---
layout: default
title: How to use Ant in Groovy And in Cloudify
category: Examples
publish: false
abstract: Code snippets of how to use ant commands in Cloudify
pageord: 100
---

<span id="#top" />
* "How do I download a file in Groovy?":#antget1
* "How do I zip/unzip a file in Groovy?":#unzip1
* "How do I copy/move a file in Groovy?":#copy1
* "How do I change files/folders permissions in Groovy?":#chmod1
* "How do I execute a system command or an executable in Groovy?":#exec1


h3(#antget1). How do I download a file in Groovy? 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/3236849.js?file=antDownload.groovy"></script>

The example is used in the install lifecycle event handler of the "(newwindow)apacheLB service recipe":https://github.com/CloudifySource/cloudify-recipes/blob/master/services/apacheLB/apacheLB_install.groovy.

More info about the get task in Ant, can be found "(newwindow)here":http://ant.apache.org/manual/Tasks/get.html.

"Back to top":#top
<hr/>

h3(#unzip1). How do I zip/unzip a file in Groovy?

<script src="https://gist.github.com/3237336.js?file=gistfile1.txt"></script>

The example is used in the install lifecycle event handler of the "(newwindow)mongod service recipe":https://github.com/CloudifySource/cloudify-recipes/blob/master/services/mongodb/mongod/mongod_install.groovy.

More info about the Unjar/Untar/Unwar/Unzip task in Ant, can be found "(newwindow)here":http://ant.apache.org/manual/Tasks/unzip.html.

"Back to top":#top
<hr/>

h3(#copy1). How do I copy/move a file in Groovy?

<script src="https://gist.github.com/3262219.js?file=copyMove.groovy"></script>

The example is used in the postInstall lifecycle event handler of the "(newwindow)jboss service recipe":https://github.com/CloudifySource/cloudify-recipes/blob/master/services/jboss/jboss_postInstall.groovy.

More info about the copy and move tasks in Ant, can be found "(newwindow)here":http://ant.apache.org/manual/Tasks/copy.html and "(newwindow)here":http://ant.apache.org/manual/Tasks/move.html

"Back to top":#top
<hr/>


h3(#chmod1). How do I change folders permissions in Groovy?

<script src="https://gist.github.com/3263405.js?file=chmod.groovy"></script>

The example is used in the install lifecycle event handler of the "(newwindow)apacheLB service recipe":https://github.com/CloudifySource/cloudify-recipes/blob/master/services/apacheLB/apacheLB_install.groovy.

More info about the chmod task in Ant, can be found "(newwindow)here":http://ant.apache.org/manual/Tasks/chmod.html.

"Back to top":#top
<hr/>

h3(#exec1). How do I execute a system command or an executable in Groovy?

<script src="https://gist.github.com/3263815.js?file=exec.groovy"></script>

The example is used in the start lifecycle event handler of the "(newwindow)tomcat service recipe":https://github.com/CloudifySource/cloudify-recipes/blob/master/services/tomcat/tomcat_start.groovy.

More info about the exec task in Ant, can be found "(newwindow)here":http://ant.apache.org/manual/Tasks/exec.html.

"Back to top":#top
<hr/>