---
layout: bt_wiki
title: The Cloud Driver
category: Developing Cloud Drivers
publish: true
abstract: An overview of the cloud driver interface and its key functions
pageord: 100
---

The Cloudify cloud driver is Cloudify's abstraction layer for the underlying cloud environment. It is responsible for interfacing with the cloud infrastructure to provide the on-demand compute resources that Cloudify requires for running applications.

h2. How Compute Resources are Provisioned

Cloudify uses *agentless-installation* to install Cloudify, meaning that it does not require any Cloudify software (agent) to be preinstalled on newly allocated machines before starting the installation process. The Cloudify controller simply connects to to newly allocated machines over SSH, installs the required Cloudify components, and connects it to the Cloudify cluster. 

As a result, other than meeting the "minimum requirements for images":../setup/post_installation_configuration.html#images, special machine images are not required. Any *nix or Windows image can be used, whether virtual or physical. Additionally, provisioning does not necessarily have to use a real "cloud", you can use an arbitrary set of non-virtualized hosts to create "BYON":../setup/configuring_byon or "local cloud":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_localcloud.html environments.html

h2. When the Cloud Driver Is Used

The cloud driver is loaded and used by the following Cloudify components:
* The Cloudify shell loads an instance of the cloud driver when provisioning or unprovisioning machines when the following commands are run, and is then discarded:
** *@bootstrap-cloud@*, *@teardown-cloud@* (management machines)
** *@install-application@*, *@uninstall-application@* (application machines)
* The ESM(Elastic Service Manager) will load one instance of the cloud driver for each deployed service. Each instance is responsible for scaling out/in the specified service. At all times, there can only be one instance of the ESM in a cluster, running zero or more instances of the cloud driver.

h4(warn). Modifying the cloud driver has an effect *only* before the "bootstrapping":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process.html

h2. How It Works

The cloud driver is a Java POJO that uses a configuration file. When defining a cloud's configuration file, you must define its class name in its cloud driver configuration file (@<cloudifyRoot>/clouds/<cloudName>/<cloudName>-cloud.groovy@). Cloudify will instantiate this class (using the @no-arg@ constructor) as required, and delegate scale out/in requests to it.

When scaling-out, the driver is responsible for allocating the machine, verifying that SSH is enabled on it, and returning the machine details to Cloudify. The  returned details include the machine's Host/IP address and the login credentials required to access the machine. When scaling-in, the driver is responsible for shutting down the machine and releasing it to the pool of available machines. In virtualized environments (including most IaaS clouds), this usually means shutting down the virtual machine itself. In contrast, in physical environments, this means either shutting down the machine itself, or simplay stopping the Cloudify agent running on the machine.

h2. Dealing with Provisioning Errors

Cloud providers and APIs are not perfect. In large-scale distributed environments, errors can and do occur. It is important to remember that the cloud driver infrastructure is NOT "transactional". It is the cloud driver implementation's responsibility to properly handle any errors from cloud environment. Most importantly, it is the cloud driver's responsibility to properly release resources if an error has occurred while provisioning a machine.
For instance, if a cloud driver requests a machine from the cloud and then waits for the machine to become available, the machine may take too long to start, exceeding the required timeout. In this case, it is the responsibility of the cloud driver to shut down the machine before throwing a @TimeoutException@ to the cloud driver infrastructure.

<h4 class="warn">If a @TimeouotException@ occurs, Cloudify will re-issue the request for the new machine.</h4>

h2. The Cloud Driver API

The cloud driver implementation class implements the following __org.cloudifysource.esc.driver.provisioning.ProvisioningDriver__ interface:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/1769906.js?file=ProvisioningDriver.java"></script>

h2. The Cloud Driver Configuration File

The implementing class of the cloud driver, along with any required cloud configuration information, is specified in a Groovy DSL based configuration file. This information is used to populate the cloud configuration object whose type is __org.cloudifysource.dsl.cloud.Cloud__. This object is passed to the cloud driver instance in the @setConfig()@ call. 

<span id="tic"></span>

h3. Template Installer Configuration

The template installer configuration feature enables "tweaking" specific values in the Cloudify bootstrapping process. This allows setting alternate port numbers, extended timeout values, etc.
This feature allows bootstrapping on environments where Cloudify's sensible default values do not work. Problems are usually related to long network initialization times, slow connection times and long host name resolution times.

h4(info). A template is not required to set all of the fields shown here. Fields that are not specified will use the default value.

Here is a sample of a template with all values of the installer configuration block specified. The values given here are the default ones:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/5280271.js"></script>
	
<span id="poc"></span>

h3. Port Configuration

Cloudify's bootstrap process includes a file transfer step and a remote execution step. 
By default, the port used for remote communications in each of these steps is determined by the protocol used. For example, SCP file transfer defaults to port 22 and CIFS file transfer defaults to port 445. 
The "-1" value specified in the port fields of the installer section indicates that the installation should use the default port.

h3. Windows Support

h4(impt). Currently some of the installer configuration fields are not supported with Windows agent images. 

The unsupported fields are:
* fileTransferConnectionTimeoutMillis (not supported with the CIFS file transfer mode)
* remoteExecutionPort (not supported with the WinRM remote execution mode)


<span id="cd"></span>
The following example shows a sample configuration file:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/5056934.js"></script>


h2(#jurl). Setting Java download path in the Cloud Driver Configuration.

By default, Cloudify download java from http://repository.cloudifysource.org/com/oracle/java/1.6.0_32/jdk-6u32-linux-i586.bin (32 bit) and from http://repository.cloudifysource.org/com/oracle/java/1.6.0_32/jdk-6u32-linux-x64.bin (64 bit).

However, if you know that the VM comes with a pre-installed JDK, you can set the javaUrl attribute's value to "NO_INSTALL" as shown in the following example:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/4537447.js"></script>

If you want Cloudify to download java from a different location, you can set the javaUrl attribute's value to that location as shown in the following example:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/4537455.js"></script>


h2(#sos). Setting OS variables in the Cloud Driver Configuration.

You can set or override any OS variable, by specifying it in an @env@ section in a template, as shown in the following example:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/3946055.js?file=setOsVar.groovy"></script>


h2(#gstr). Parameterization of the Cloud Driver Configuration.

You can use Groovy GString expressions in the cloud driver DSL, thus you can easily set the values you need in the DSL using a simple properties file with a naming convention as shown in the following example:

Set the following values in ec2-cloud.properties : 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/3927152.js?file=ec2-cloud.properties"></script>

And then you'll be able to use them in ec2-cloud.groovy:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/5057115.js"></script>

<h4 class="impt">In order for this to work, you must maintain a naming convention: The cloud driver should be named *yourcloudprovider-cloud.groovy* and the properites file must be named *yourcloudprovider-cloud.properties*</h4>
<br/>


h2(#cscr). Custom script or code in the Cloud Driver Configuration.

You can script inline or point to an uploaded script as shown in the following example:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/3946829.js?file=inline.groovy"></script>

<br/>


h2(#addtmp). Adding templates 

After the "bootstrapping process":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process.html is over, you may add more templates to the cloud.html
Simply use the "add-templates":../recipe/command_line_reference.html#add_templates CLI command as follows: <span class="snippet">add-templates [directory or file path] </span>

* If the path is to a groovy file, then the file should be named *-template.groovy and it should be the only one with that suffix in its directory. 
  All the files in its directory will be copied to the management machine together with the groovy file itself.
  
* If the path is to a folder or of a zip file, then the folder (or the unzipped folder) should include at least one template file (a file that ends with @-template.groovy@ and all the required files for evaluating the template files (e.g. the upload folder).

All the template groovy files that have prefixes other than the template's name, will be renamed to &lt;template name&gt;-template.groovy.
For example &#34;linux-template.groovy&#34; will become &#34;SMALL_LINUX-template.groovy&#34;.
Properties and overrides files will be renamed in the same manner.

Here's an example of a file that contains a template: 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/4244926.js?file=addedTemplate.groovy"></script>

h4(impt). The template (see example above) must be in brackets since it is translated into a Map.


h4(info). Only one template per groovy file is allowed. - If a groovy file contains more than one template, then an exception will be thrown and no templates will be added.
				
h4(impt). Templates that already exist, will NOT be overridden.


h2(#rsv). Setting Reserved Memory

The @reservedMemoryCapacityPerMachineInMB@ attribue which is set in the provider section of the cloud driver, is the estimated amount of RAM used by the operating system and the Cloudify agent running on the machine and any other non-Cloudify application running on the machine (An example of non-Cloudify applications is if the VM comes with pre-installed applications, that are not a part of Cloudify and are not a part of the current recipe).

The @machineMemoryMB@ attribue which is set in the templates section of the cloud driver for each template, is the amount of RAM available to a machine.

* In a dedicated mode (isolationSLA - one service instance per machine): 
The value of reservedMemoryCapacityPerMachineInMB must be smaller then the value of machineMemoryMB which is defined in the template.
Cloudify will use the remaining memory on the machine for capacity planning of this service instance, and will thus be able to install the instance on the newly allocated machine. 

* If a service uses one of the Multi Tenancy modes:
The memory capacity requirement of the service instance is defined by the user (via isolationSLA), therefore the user must specify a valid number in the instanceMemoryMB property, taking into account the reservedMemoryCapacityPerMachineInMB and machineMemoryMB, otherwise there will not be enough memory to install even a single instance. 

h4(impt). The reservedMemoryCapacityPerMachineInMB is only relevant in a Multi Tenancy mode, since in the dedicated mode, the capacity planning parameters are calculated by Cloudify.


<br/>
You can read about isolationSLA (Multi Tenant Deployment) "here":../developing/service_recipe.html#mtd.html


h2. The Default Cloud Driver

Cloudify comes with a built-in cloud driver implementation that is based on the popular "jclouds":http://www.jclouds.org framework. This cloud driver enables you to deploy Cloudify services for many cloud providers and APIs. For a full listing of supported clouds, see "jclouds : Supported Providers":http://www.jclouds.org/documentation/reference/supported-providers.
The default cloud driver can be used as-is, or as the basis for an extension that suits your requirements.

h4(info). GigaSpaces regularly tests this cloud driver implementation on "Amazon EC2":http://aws.amazon.com and "Rackspace Cloud":http://www.rackspace.com.


h2. See Also

* "Developing Custom Cloud Drivers":../clouddrivers/developing_custom_clouddriver.html