---
layout: about
title: About Us
category: About Us
---

h1. Traditional PaaS limits your cloud portability, and choice of application stack, simply put.

<p><strong>GigaSpaces Cloudify enables you to on-board and scale any app, on any cloud, with no code changes, while maintaining full visibility and control. </strong></p>

h2. How is this done?
* Cloudify is external to your application stack, meaning no code change required <br />
* Cloudify is not just for deployment; it manages and monitors your application <br />
* Cloudify helps your IT organization become automated, elastic, and agile</p>


h2. What does this actually mean?


<p>Any app, any stack: Your existing applications can easily move to the cloud, without any code or architecture changes: Cloudify supports any kind of application, using any application stack, with a relational or non-relational data store, or for use with other middleware components.</p>

<p>Any cloud: Run your app on any environment – public, private, or hybrid cloud, plain virtualization, or a combination of environments (for cloud bursting, e.g.). Cloudify completely isolates the application from the underlying cloud runtime. So you get the same flexibility you’re accustomed to, no matter which environment you choose.</p>

<p>Full control: Losing control and visibility when moving to the cloud means nothing gained in terms of agility and productivity. Cloudify offers built-in monitoring and management services, but also facilitates using your existing tools on the cloud.</p>
