---
layout: bt_about
title: Cloudify Features
category: Roadmap
---

h1. <i class="icon-star"></i> *Cloudify Features*

h2. <i class="icon-bolt"></i> *Core orchestration features*

* TOSCA based blueprints (free)
** Support for Nested Stacks
**Support multiple IaaS providers as well as bare metal 
** Extensible 

* Agent based or agentless management of managed hosts
* Headless orchestration (no management)
** Use Tosca for installation and configuration of complex stack without the need for continued management and monitoring.

* Built-in support for the creation of network components  (routers, networks and subnets, security groups, etc) as part of the orchestration process
* Built-in support for the allocation of storage resources as part of the orchestration process
* Out of the box support for leading configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet 
* Ability to leverage any scripting language (bash, Python, ruby, etc) for the configuration of managed servers 
* Extensible workflow engine with out of the box workflows for deployment, undeployment, scaling and recovery from failure (free)
* Extensible real-time policy engine based on riemann.io for analyzing and managing deployments in real time
* Built-in long-term log analytics database based on ElasticSearch
* Built-in auto-scaling and and auto-recovery policies


h2. <i class="icon-bolt"></i> *Docker Orchestration: Docker as a first class citizen in Cloudify*


* TOSCA types for Docker containers that enables the provisioning and orchestration of multiple Docker containers that are part of the same application on any cloud or bare-metal environment
* Support for all core orchestration features for managed Docker containers, i.e. deployment and undeployment, monitoring of and log collection from managed containers, auto-scaling and auto-recovery. 

h2. <i class="icon-bolt"></i> *Management & Monitoring*

* Log gathering and aggregation (Open Source Version)
* Metric collection and storage using Diamond and InfluxDB (Open Source Version)
* Rich web interface, including blueprint visualization, log search, monitoring (Grafana based) and workflow progress tracking (Premium Version)
* Integration with external monitoring 

h2. <i class="icon-bolt"></i> *Application (Blueprint) Catalog*

* Manage blueprints in a git repository and have Cloudify use this repo as your blueprint catalog (Premium Version)

h2. <i class="icon-bolt"></i> *Support multiple IaaS platforms*

* Native support for "OpenStack":http://getcloudify.org/openstack-architecture-cloudify.html
* VMware support (Premium Version) 
** vSphere
** vCloud
* AWS (Free Version)
* IBM SoftLayer (Premium Version)
* CloudStack (Free Version)

h2. <i class="icon-bolt"></i> *Solution Stack (Premium)*  
* Advanced Blueprints - hardened blueprints from leading software stacks such Nosql data stores, relational databases and enterprise middleware technologies (Premium Version)







<br/>

   <hr/>
             <section id="content">
					<div class="container">
                    <div class="row">
                                <div class="span12">
                                    <h2>How to Get  <strong>Support</strong></h4></div>

				<div class="row">
					<div class="span4">
						<div class="box aligncenter">
								<font color="#00B4DA"><i class="icon icon-4x icon-comments-alt"></i></font>

							<div class="text">
								<h3>Mailing Lists</h3>
								</div>
									</div>
								<p>
									Join our <a href="https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-users" target="_blank">cloudify-users</a> or <a href="https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-developers" target="_blank">cloudify-developers</a> mailing list, and get support from the community.
								</p>


						</div>
							<div class="span4">
						<div class="box aligncenter">
								<font color="#00B4DA"><i class="fa fa-stack-overflow icon-4x"></i></font>

							<div class="text">
								<h3>Stack Overflow</h3>
								</div>
								</div>
								<p>
									 Subscribe to the <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/cloudify" target="_blank">Cloudify tag</a> on Stack Overflow, and feel free to ask your questions amongst cloud pros.
								</p>
															</div>
					<div class="span4">
						<div class="box aligncenter">
								<font color="#00B4DA"><i class="icon icon-4x icon-envelope-alt"></i></font>

							<div class="text">
								<h3>Shoot us an Email</h3>
									</div>
									</div>
								<p>
									 Feel free to reach out by <a href="mailto:hello@getcloudify.org">email</a> with any question you may have - we're always happy to help.
								</p>

							</div>
						</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
</div>
</section>