---
layout: bt_about
title: Getting Involved. How to Contribute to Cloudify.
category: Contributing
---

h1. *Getting Involved.* How to Contribute to Cloudify.

We're thrilled to have you as a contributor to our open source project! There are plenty of ways to get involved from improving our docs to submitting bug reports and feature requests for nifty new functionality in Cloudify, through bug reports - and much more.  We take all of our contributions and feedback seriously - so don't be afraid to dive in. 

h2. <i class="icon-bug"></i> *Bug Reports*

No code is perfect, we try our best, but sometimes we need an objective eye to catch those nasty little bugs.  That's where you come in.  If you believe you found a bug in our code, you are more than welcome to submit a bug report.  Here's how:

# First, check our issues list to see if the bug has already been reported in our "(newwindow) Jira project":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY.
# Next, visit our mailing lists "(newwindow) cloudify-users":https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-users and "(newwindow) cloudify-developers":https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-developers and consult with the community, perhaps this is something that has a quick fix.
# When doing so, please be as specific as possible, and try to include reproduction scenarios.
# If you still haven't been able to solve the issue, please do submit a bug report using the link above.
# Be sure to "(newwindow)sign up for an account":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/admin/users/sign-up before doing so.


h2. <i class="icon-plus-sign"></i> *Feature Requests*

We're constantly trying to innovate and provide new and exciting features.  If you have an idea for a feature that you believe Cloudify should support, we're more than happy to hear about it.  The process is pretty similar to submitting a bug report.

# First check to see if the feature has already been requested in our "(newwindow) Jira project":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY.
# Next consult with the community through our mailing lists and discuss your idea, where it is relevant: "(newwindow) cloudify-users":https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-users or "(newwindow) cloudify-developers":https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-developers, respectively.  Perhaps this is something that is already being worked on, or there are issues you may need to consider before implementing such a change.
# If you've discussed it with the community, and it is something that they'd like to see in the Cloudify road map, please do feel free to submit it in the Jira project above (just, again, be sure to have an account).


h2. <i class="icon-edit"></i> *Documentation Edits*

In the corner of each of our documentation pages you will find a small button that looks like this <button data-toggle="popover" type="button" class="btn btn-default"><i class="icon-github-alt icon-large"></i>&nbsp;&nbsp;Edit</button>.  When you click on it, you will be able to edit the page in Github, and submit a pull request, which will then be merged into the docs following our review.  

h2. <i class="icon-code"></i> *Contributing Code*

We are always more than happy to work with community developers to get their code integrated into the Cloudify project.  Like bug fixes and feature requests, it is important to open a line of communication first and foremost, before getting your hands dirty and writing too much code.  However, if you feel you would like to contribute to the project, after you have discussed your ideas in our mailing lists, here's how you would go about doing so:

# Before getting started, you will need to sign our "(newwindow) Contributor License Agreement":https://secure.echosign.com/public/hostedForm?formid=9MQHK3453B3R27. This is a one-time step that you need to take. If you're contributing on behalf of a company, they should sign the "(newwindow) Corporate Contributor License Agreement":https://secure.echosign.com/public/hostedForm?formid=9MQHKK7547FA6C. Please complete and sign the form, we'll process it, and send you an introduction email and upgrade your permission on our Jira once we've approved it.
# Create an account on "Github":http://www.github.com if you don't already have one. (Your contributions should be done through "GitHub Pull Requests":http://help.github.com/send-pull-requests/ and be associated with a Jira issue that you create.)

 


Make sure you have Python 2.7 installed.  Integration with IntelliJ and Eclipse should work out of the box. 

Please following the following formatting guidelines:
* Source code needs to include Apache 2.0 License header ("Apache License Version 2":http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).
* The Python code needs to be "Flake8":https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flake8 validated.


h1. How to Contribute

* Fork the "(newwindow) Cloudify project":https://github.com/cloudify-cosmo you would like to contribute to on GitHub. 
* Make your changes to the code!
* Submit a pull request. Please include as many details as possible in the request: The use case you're trying to cater for or the bug you're solving, some details about your changes and anything else that can help us understand your changes.

* We'll test, verify and merge your changes. That's it.


h2. *Thanks for being a contributing member of the community!*

   <hr/>                   
             <section id="content">
					<div class="container">
                    <div class="row">
                                <div class="span12">
                                    <h4>How to Get  <strong>Support</strong></h4></div>

				<div class="row">
					<div class="span4">
						<div class="box aligncenter">
								<font color="#00B4DA"><i class="icon icon-4x icon-comments-alt"></i></font>
							
							<div class="text">
								<h3>Mailing Lists</h3>
								</div>
									</div>
								<p>
									Join our <a href="https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-users" target="_blank">cloudify-users</a> or <a href="https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-developers" target="_blank">cloudify-developers</a> mailing list, and get support from the community.
								</p>
								
						
						</div>
							<div class="span4">
						<div class="box aligncenter">
								<font color="#00B4DA"><i class="fa fa-stack-overflow icon-4x"></i></font>
							
							<div class="text">
								<h3>Stack Overflow</h3>
								</div>
								</div>
								<p>
									 Subscribe to the <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/cloudify" target="_blank">Cloudify tag</a> on Stack Overflow, and feel free to ask your questions amongst cloud pros.
								</p>
															</div>
					<div class="span4">
						<div class="box aligncenter">
								<font color="#00B4DA"><i class="icon icon-4x icon-envelope-alt"></i></font>
						
							<div class="text">
								<h3>Shoot us an Email</h3>
									</div>
									</div>
								<p>
									 Feel free to reach out by <a href="mailto:hello@getcloudify.org">email</a> with any question you may have - we're always happy to help.
								</p>
							
							</div>
						</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>	   
</div>
</section>