---
layout: default
title: Introduction to Cloudify
category: overview
---
p. On-Board and Scale Any App, To Any Cloud. Your Way .

h3. Cloudify is external to your application stack – no code change required
h3. Cloudify is not just for deployment – it manages and monitors your application 
h3. Cloudify helps your IT organization become automated, elastic, and agile 

h1. Cloudify enables you to on-board your mission-critical applications to any cloud, while maintaining full control. 

*What this means:*

|*Any App*                     
Cloudify focuses on applications and their interdependent services, which rely on computation resources from the cloud.
Cloudify installs the services on virtual machines according to SLA. Then, using external agents, Cloudify manages and monitors the application, assuring SLA, failover, and recovery.
|*Any Cloud*                                 
Cloudify drives the cloud to provision resources and infrastructure to the application. This includes virtual machines, VM firewall configurations, VLAN, and load balancer. 
The Cloudify cloud driver is the only layer that knows a cloud’s specific APIs. Applications use generic jargon in the recipe to ask for resources, making them portable from one cloud to another.
|
|*Your Way* 
Cloudify recipes apply user scripts for handling lifecycle events from installation to startup, to custom events such as hot updates to production. Cloudify provides simple APIs that enable any scenario of dynamic configuration and wiring of application services. It also provides a pluggable, customizable monitoring framework that enables close monitoring of the application for both availability and performance.
Cloudify provides an enterprise-grade management and monitoring console that for managing and troubleshooting both the environment and deployed applications
|*Automatic, Dynamic Scaling*
Cloudify enables you to proactively cope with varying loads using dynamic load balancing management and automatic scaling. Your application services scale dynamically, based on built-in or custom metrics that you define. 
|


