---
layout: bt_about
title: How to Use Cloudify Examples
category: Contributing
---

Cloudify shares example blueprints and plugins at the "Cloudify Examples(Cloudify Examples)":https://github.com/cloudify-examples github organization.


h1. *How to Use Cloudify Examples*

Below you will find several examples.

They are distinguished according to NFV, Blueprints, and Plugins. Blueprints can be uploaded to an existing manager. Plugins can be packaged and used in your blueprints.

The example blueprints have been prepared to work best with the "Cloudify Environment Setup(Cloudify Environment Setup)":https://github.com/cloudify-examples/cloudify-environment-setup example blueprint.


h2. *View information about the example*

This action renders the example repository's readme file.

_Note: A default version of the repo is used. If you do not want to view the default version, you can select the desired branch from "branches & tags" menu._

The readme will describe instructions on what the example does, and how to deploy it in your own environment.

You can also download any version of the package by clicking on the download link.

You can also upload to a manager.

h2. *View the example source at github*

Clicking on the Source link, takes you to the github page for the repository.

h2. *Upload to a Manager*

"Upload to Manager" allows you to deploy a blueprint example on any manager that is accessible from the internet.

When you click on this link, a dialog opens. You can:

* Select which version of the example you want to use.
* Select which example blueprint you want to upload.
* Input the blueprint ID as it will be seen in your Cloudify Manager.

h2. *Start Instantly With Our Online Labs*

If you would like to start testing Cloudify without Cloudify Manager, see our online labs and courses at "Cloudify Academy":/Cloudify-Academy.html.


<!-- If you don't have a Cloudify Manager, you can test one instantly at "test drive":http://getcloudify.org/widget.html. -->

<!-- When you click "Try it now", you will receive an IP, which you can put in the Manager Endpoint field. -->

<!-- *Note: that the correct format for endpoint will be "http://[ENDPOINT_URL/IP]".* -->
