---
layout: bt_about
title: Getting Involved. How to Contribute to Cloudify Examples.
category: Contributing
---

h1. *Getting Involved.* How to Contribute to Cloudify Examples.

This guide will present the criteria for accepting contributions to the Cloudify Examples Section.

h1. *Repository Packaging*

Each example must be packaged as a Github repository under the Cloudify-Examples Github organization.

The repository itself should contain the following files:

* A package Readme.md file.
* At least one example blueprint.
* Any necessary files for the successful execution, including example inputs files.

h2. *What goes in the Readme*

* First - a brief summary of the example.
* Next - any disclaimers about usability, supported behavior, warnings, etc.
* An About section, which includes supported versions of Cloudify, OS, which version of dependencies (e.g. Docker or Puppet), whether the example is for use with a Cloudify Manager or local workflows, or both, etc.
* An Execution Instructions section.

h2. *Example Blueprint*

The example blueprint(s) should follow the file naming convention of [provider]-blueprint.yaml in the file name. For example:

* local-blueprint.yaml
* openstack-blueprint.yaml

If relevant, there should be a blueprint for each of the main providers (AWS/Openstack/vCloud air).

h2. *Blueprint organization*

Blueprints should adhere to the following order:

* DSL_VERSION declaration
* imports section
* inputs section
* node_types definition section
* relationships definition section
* node_templates section

Inside of the node_templates section, there is a convention of the following order:

* First, application related node templates.
* Then, infrastructure related node templates.

h1. *How to submit*

"Get in touch with us":http://getcloudify.org/contactus.html.

h1. *What's Next*

To learn more about writing examples, see "blueprint authoring":http://getcloudify.org/guide/3.2/blueprints_authoring.html and "plugin authoring":http://getcloudify.org/guide/3.2/plugins_authoring.html guides.
