---
layout: bt_wiki
title: Contributing to the Cloudify Open Source Project
category: Contributing
publish: true
abstract: How to become a contributor to Cloudify
pageord: 1
---

h1. How to Become a Contributor

We're thrilled to have you as a contributor! Before getting to action, there are a few simple steps you need to follow:

# Sign up for an account on our "(newwindow)Public Jira":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/Signup!default.jspa.
# Sign our "Contributor License Agreement":cloudify-cla.pdf. This is a one-time step that you need to take. If you're contributing on behalf of a company, they should sign the "Corporate Contributor License Agreement":cloudify-ccla.pdf. Please download the PDF, complete and sign the form and send back to "cloudify@gigaspaces.com":mailto:cloudify@gigaspaces.com. We'll process it, send you an introduction email and upgrade your permission on our Jira once we've approved it.
# We prefer that you contribute through Github. To do so, create an account on "Github":http://www.github.com if you don't already have one. Your contributions should be done through "GitHub Pull Requests":http://help.github.com/send-pull-requests/ and be associated with a Jira issue that you create. If you cannot use Github for some reason, let us know and we'll find another way for you to contribute.

h1. How to Contribute

* Fork the Cloudify project you would like to contribute to on GitHub. All of our projects are located under "The CloudifySource Organization":https://github.com/CloudifySource/ on Github.
* Make your changes to the code!
* Submit a pull request. Please include as many details as possible in the request: The use case you're trying to cater for or the bug you're solving, some details about your changes and anything else that can help us understand your changes.

We'll test, verify and merge your changes.

h1. Contribution FAQ

h2. *Q: Why is your software Apache Licensed?*

*A*: We use the "Apache License Version 2":ttp://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 because it provides the same level of freedom for our users that we desire for ourselves.
* It allows you to freely download and use Cloudify and it's related projects, in whole or in part, for personal, company internal, or commercial purposes.
* It forbids you to redistribute any piece of Cloudify software without proper attribution, or use any marks owned by GigaSpaces in any way that might state or imply that GigaSpaces endorses your distribution or imply that you created the Cloudify software in question.
* It requires you to include a copy of the license in any redistribution you may make that includes the Cloudify software and provide a clear attribution to Cloudify for any distributions that include the Cloudify software.
* It does not require you to include the source of the Cloudify software itself, or of any modifications you may have made to it, in any redistribution you may assemble that includes it.
* It does not require you to submit changes that you make to the software back to the Cloudify repositories (although we strongly encourage you to do so).

<hr/>

h2. *Q: Why do I need to fill out a Contributor License Agreement?*

*A*: The Contributor License Agreement (CLA) makes everyone's rights clear. It states:
* You grant copyright license for your contributions to GigaSpaces
* You grant patent license for your contributions to GigaSpaces
* Your contribution is entirely voluntary
* Your work is your original creation
* You are not required to provide support for your contributions

p. You should read and understand the entire CLA before signing it. Our description of it above is not legally binding.

The CLA is beneficial to our contributors and users because it ensures that we will always be able to release our projects, free from any individual contributor revoking our rights to distribute their contribution. This also means that, if you fork a Cloudify project, or utilize it in a commercial product, you know that you are clear of patent and copyright issues.
It makes clear what is required of our contributors. The most important thing about the CLA is that it doesn't give GigaSpaces any special rights - it just makes things more explicit.

<hr/>

h2. *Q: Can you accept my contribution without a CLA?*

*A*: No. We must have a signed CLA before we can merge your changes to any of our repositories.

<hr/>

h2. *Q: When do I need to have my company sign a CCLA?*

*A*: If you are contributing to a Cloudify project while doing work on company time, or utilizing company resources, you should have your company sign a CCLA.

<hr/>

h2. *Q: How do you correlate my Github account to the CLA I signed?*

*A*: If you intend to use Github for contributing (Which is our preffered way to get your contributions), make sure to specify your Github account in the CLA. This will allow us to validate that you indeed signed the CLA before merging your code into the Cloudify repositories.