---
layout: blogpost
title: How to Install Heat and Devstack on EC2
image: tamir.jpg
author: Tamir Korem
tags: 
 - OpenStack
 - Devstack
 - EC2
 - Cloud
---		

h2. Devstack is

# A great option to install and run an OpenStack cloud on your laptop or inside a VM on a cloud. 
# Ideal for potential users who want to see what the Dashboard looks like from an admin or user perspective, and OpenStack contributors who wish to test their apps against a complete local environment.
# A well documented shell script that enables users to build complete Openstack development environments.

You can read more about Devstack "(newwindow)here":http://devstack.org/

h2. Heat is

# A service to orchestrate multiple composite cloud applications using the AWS CloudFormation template format, through both an OpenStack-native ReST API and a CloudFormation-compatible Query API.
# A great tool that gives developers and administrators an easy way to create a collection of related Openstack resources and provision them in an orderly and predictable fashion.

You can read more about Heat "(newwindow)here":https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Heat


h2. How to install it on EC2

Create a "strong" EC2 instance that will be able to funcation well under the load. -
I used an m1.xlarge Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS instance (AMI-89b1a3fd) which is available in the eu-west-1 region (Ireland). 
<br/>  
To install devatack and heat, you can invoke the following command:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/6007850.js"></script>
   
In the following snippet ,you can go over the script and see what it does : 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/5942683.js"></script>
  
h4(info). It's done, so let's have fun : 
  
h4. Get the nova flavor list

<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/6007677.js"></script>
  
h4. Get the nova image list

<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/6007700.js"></script>
  
h4. Create a private key for Heat 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/6007743.js"></script>  
  
h4. Create a new Heat stack

<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/6007769.js"></script>

h4. Delete a Heat stack

<script src="https://gist.github.com/tamirko/6007865.js"></script>

Good luck !







