---
layout: bt_wiki
title: Deploy a Simple Application Locally
cat: Getting Started
publish: true
abstract: This guide is to help you get started with Cloudify. Start here if you're new to Cloudify
pageord: 100
--- 

After completing this guide you will be the proud owner of your own local cloud and have a cool web application on top of it.

h2. Setup

#  <span class="inlineExpandBtn" title="../setup/cloudify_prerequisites">Download JDK and configure JAVA_HOME.</span>
# "(newwindow)Download(Click here to download the Cloudify zip file)":http://bit.ly/ztbg9u and unzip the Cloudify distribution file.

h2. Bootstrap Local Cloud

* *Start the cloudify shell*
On Linux:
<pre class='prettyprint'>gigaspaces-cloudify-2.7/bin $ ./cloudify.sh   </pre>On Windows:
<pre class='prettyprint'>gigaspaces-cloudify-2.7\bin $ cloudify.bat   </pre>

* *Bootstrap the local cloud* 
This will install Cloudify management,agent and UI on your machine.
<pre class='prettyprint'>cloudify@default> bootstrap-localcloud   </pre>

* *You should get the following output:*
<pre class="prettyprint withoutpad">cloudify@default> bootstrap-localcloud
Setting security profile to "nonsecure".
Bootstrapping localcloud, this may take a few minutes
STARTING CLOUDIFY MANAGEMENT
...
LOCAL-CLOUD INFO :
                CLOUDIFY MANAGEMENT     http://127.0.0.1:8099/
                CLOUDIFY GATEWAY        http://127.0.0.1:8100/
...Local-cloud started successfully.
Use the teardown-localcloud command to shutdown all processes.</pre>

* *Go to the Web UI to see the cloud services* : "(newwindow)Cloudify web UI":http://127.0.0.1:8099
No username or password is necessary at this point.

h2. Deploy Application

The Hello World application presented in this guide is actually a @war@ file that's deployed on "(newwindow)Tomcat":http://tomcat.apache.org.

Now that the cloud is ready, let's deploy the application:
<pre class='prettyprint'>cloudify@default> install-application helloworld   </pre>

During the deployment, you can go again to the "(newwindow)Web UI":http://127.0.0.1:8099 and track the progress of your newborn application's deployment at *Applications->Select Application->helloworld*.
 
Once the application installation has successfully completed, you can access the *helloworld* at the following URL:  "(newwindow)http://127.0.0.1:8082/helloworld":http://127.0.0.1:8082/helloworld.

h2. Uninstall the Application

<pre class='prettyprint'>cloudify@default> uninstall-application helloworld   </pre>

h2. Teardown the Local Cloud

<pre class='prettyprint'>cloudify@default> teardown-localcloud   </pre>


h2. What's Next?

* Learn more about "Deploy a Multi-Tier App on EC2":../qsg/quick_start_guide_ec2.html
* Learn more about "recipe development":../developing/recipes_overview.html
* Learn more about cloud portability and "cloud drivers":../clouddrivers/cloud_driver.html
* Learn how to "develop a monitoring plugin":../plugins_and_probes/develop_your_plugin.html
* Learn more about monitoring your application with the "Cloudify Web Management Console":../monitoring/the_web_management_console.html