---
layout: default
title: Using Custom Commands
category: devrecipe
---

h1. Using Custom Commands

h4. 
In some cases, you want to invoke a command during the run time of your application at your convinience and not limit it to "lifecycle events":/guide/Developing/lifecycle_events.
Well, Cloudify comes to your rescue and enables you to add such custom commands.

h4. What's the syntax ?
	The custom commands (customCommands) section can contain an array of commands.
	Here are three general examples:
	
	// Example #1 : Run myFile.groovy whenever YOUR_COMMAND_NAME is invoked.
	
	customCommands ([
        "YOUR_COMMAND_NAME" : "myFile.groovy"
    ])
	
	//Example #2 : 
	// Run my2ndFile.groovy whenever YOUR_1ST_COMMAND_NAME is invoked.
	// Activate a different code for each OS.
	customCommands ([
        "YOUR_1ST_COMMAND_NAME" : "my2ndFile.groovy", 
		
		"YOUR_2ND_COMMAND_NAME" : ([
			"Win.*" : "my3rdFile.bat",
			"Linux" : "anotherFile.sh",
			"Mac.*" : { 
				// Any Java or groovy code.				
				YourClass yc = new YourClass();
				yc.update();							
			}
			
		])
    ])	

	//Example #3: 
	// The following YOUR_COMMAND_NAME receives two parameters (firstName and lastName) 
	// and then it prints the content of firstName_lastName.txt.
	customCommands ([	
		// A command with two parameters (firstName and lastName)	
        "YOUR_COMMAND_NAME" : {firstName, lastName ->  
			def lineSeparator = System.getProperty("line.separator");
			def userFile = new File(context.serviceDirectory + lineSeparator + firstName+"_"+lastName+".txt";
			System.out.println("User :"+firstName+ " " +lastName + " text is "+userFile.text)
			
			ServiceUtils.killProcess(context.externalProcessId)
		}
    ])	
		
	
Note: 
# If you use a java code, don't forget to add an import line (import ...yourpackage.YourClass) in the begining of the service file.
# If YourClass is indeed "yours" and not a Cloudify class and not a standard Java class, then you also need to place the jar containing the YourClass in the usmlib folder in the service folder.
	
	
	
	Note:
	# You can use .sh,.bat or .groovy file or an inlne command (Java or Groovy).
	# If you specify a file name, you must place it in the service folder.

h4. Where should I place the customCommands section?
	The {{customCommands}} section should be placed in the prolog (main) section of the relevant service file (&lt;service name&gt;-service.groovy).

h4. When and how will it be activated?
	During the "installtation and deployment":/.... of your applicaion, the custom commands that you specified in the recipe, will be registered for later use.
    After your application is up and running, you can activate any of the custom commands at any time.
		
	Here's how to invoke a custom command that requires no parameters:	
		__invoke ServiceName customCommandName__

	Here's how to invoke a custom command that requires two parameters (x and y):	
		__invoke ServiceName customCommandName x y__
		

h4. Specific examples:

Scenario:
*You on-boarded your application to a cloud with Cloudify.
*Your application includes one tomcat service.
*Two months after the installation, you fixed a bug in your tomcat war.
*You want to update the war without being forced to re-deploy the whole application.

Here's what you should do:
# During the installation, your tomcat service file should include the following section : 
	customCommands ([
        "updateWar" : "update_war.groovy"
    ])
# The tomcat service folder should contain the update_war.groovy
  Here's the content of update_war.groovy 
  <script src="https://gist.github.com/1723340.js?file=update_war.groovy"></script>

# Two months later : 
  ##Run the cloudify client.
  ##Type: __connect REST-ADMIN-SERVER-URL__
  ##Type: __use-application YOUR-APP-NAME__
  ##Type __updateWar__ and wait...
  ##If all goes well, your new war in now deployed.
	
	
	

h4. Need More ?

Additional and more complexed custom commands will be availble soon.


