---
layout: default
title: The Service Recipe
category: Developing Recipes
publish: true
abstract: Describes the part of the recipe that describes a specific application service including its configuration, lifecycle, and its management
pageord: 3
---

A service recipe is comprised of the service descriptor file and its supporting files.

h2. Service Descriptor File

The service descriptor file describes the following information:
* *"General":#general*: Describes the service name, service type, number of service instances, and the service icon filename
* *Compute*: Specifies the template name to use when provisioning machines. The template name corresponds to a template name specified in the cloud driver, that describes the hardware profiles a the pool of machines that can be used when provisioning service instances. A hardware profile maps to a specific hardware setup and image size (e.g. in Amazon EC2 it would map to the combination of the hardware id [m1.small, c1.medium, etc.] and an ami id). This allows for clear separation between the application recipe and the cloud environment on which it runs. For more information, see "Cloud Drivers":/guide/clouddrivers/cloud_driver.
* *"Lifecycle Events":/guide/developing/lifecycle_events*: Maps events to handling scripts or closures and, as such, is the most important part of the service recipe. An event handler can be an external Groovy script, a shell script, or a batch file (depending on the operating system). The handlers must reside in the service folder
<h4 class="info">Cloudify can use the same recipe for different operating systems, as long as you specify the relevant instructions for each within the recipe, or the instructions are generic to all of them. The use of handler files is optional. For example, if a post-installation script is not specified in the service recipe, then Cloudify does not execute a handler after the service has been installed.</h4>
* *"Custom Commands":/guide/developing/custom_commands*: Maps custom commands to handling scripts that can be invoked as commands using the Cloudify shell
* *"Probes":/guide/developing/plugins*: For monitoring service configuration, performance, and availability
* *"UI Layout":/guide/developing/configuring_ui_section*: Describes the layout to use for displaying the collected metrics in the "Cloudify web management console":/guide/monitoring/the_web_management_console
<h4 class="info">In future releases, Cloudify will also support "*provided services*". These services are not provisioned by Cloudify and are only monitored for availability.</h4>

h3(#general). General Section

The *General* section describes the following attributes:

|_. Attributes |_. Description |
| @name@ | The service name is used to identify this service by the various Cloudify management and monitoring tools. Therefore, the name must be unique across all services that are managed by the same Cloudify controller. |
| @icon@ | The optional image file to use as an icon for this service in the *Application Map* that is displayed in the "Cloudify web management console":/guide/monitoring/the_web_management_console. |
| @type@ | The service type is used by the Cloudify web management console to determine the location of this service in the *Application Map*. If you do not specify an @icon@ in this section, the service type is used to determine the default icon to display in the *Application Map*. The following service types are supported:
<ul><li>WEB_SERVER</li>
<li>APP_SERVER</li>
<li>DATABASE</li>
<li>NOSQL_DB</li>
<li>MESSAGE_BUS</li>
<li>ESB_SERVER</li>
<li>LOAD_BALANCER</li>
<li>SECURITY_SERVER</li></ul> |
| @numInstances@ | The initial number of instances provisioned when this service is started. |

The following shows an example of the *General* section.
<script src="https://gist.github.com/1760251.js?file=Recipe_Prolog.groovy"></script>