---
layout: default
title: Bootstrapping Azure
category: Bootstrapping
publish: true
abstract: Explains how to bootstrap Cloudify on Windows Azure
pageord: 301
---

A local cloud is a full-fledged cloud emulation environment that allows the user to run all Cloudify management and application services on a single machine.

h2. Prerequisites

Before you bootstrap your Windows Azure cloud, make sure that your environment meets all the minimum requirements. For more information, see "Configuring Azure":/guide/setup/installing_azure and "Bootstrapping Prerequisites":/guide/bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process#prereqs.

h2. Bootstrapping

Bootstrapping on Windows Azure is a process where the Cloudify cloud driver on your machine interacts with the Windows Azure management API to create a new Azure deployment. Cloudify instructs Azure to perform the following tasks:
* Create a management role with the Cloudify controller components
* Create a webui role with the Cloudify web management console webserver
* Create worker roles for each application service according to your recipe

Currently, each application is deployed with its own Cloudify controller installation.

The following example shows the command for bootstrapping the Cloudify controller and the Cloudify agents for the travel application (tomcat and cassandra roles).

Bootstrapping the Windows Azure cloud is extremely simple, just follow the "bootstrapping":/guide/bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process#boot procedure, typing the following command in step 2: *@azure:bootstrap-app@* @-azure-pwd 123456 -azure-svc mytraveldemo c:/cloudify/examples/azure/travel@

h2(#tear). Teardown

To shut down the local cloud environment, at the Cloudify shell prompt, type: *@teardown-localcloud@*

h4(info). This uninstalls applications and shuts down all local cloud processes running on your machine.