---
layout: default
title: Bootstrapping Cloudify in a Non-Cloud Environment
category: Bootstrapping
publish: true
abstract: Explains how to bootstrap Cloudify and deploy applications in a distributed environment utilizing existing servers
pageord: 600
---

Cloudify can be configured to leverage an arbitrary set of existing servers (virtualized or non-virtualized), and utilize these when deploying and managing deployed deployed Cloudify services. This type of utilizing existing servers referred as "Bring Your Own Node" (BYON).

h2. BYON Cloud Driver Overview

The BYON Cloud Driver is an implementation of the Cloudify Cloud Driver, allowing a user to leverage a set of physical machines or virtual machines to run and manage Cloudify services. A typical use case for such a scenario can be development or QA environment where the VMs are available and you would like to construct a pool of existing VMs to deploy each application service.

The BYON cloud driver works in a very similar manner to other Cloud Drivers. It defines templates and aliases . These can be referenced and associated with the different recipes. Each template is a pool of machines that can be defined by specific IP, IP range and a "(newwindow)CIDR mask":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CIDR.

h2. BYON Bootstrap Process

The BYON Bootstrap Process involves the following:

h3. Management Machines Provisioning

When the BYON cloud driver is requested to bootstrap BYON cloud, it accesses one of the machines listed on the management machine template, accesses the machine using SSH and installs the Cloudify management components on it.

h3. Application Machines Provisioning

When the Cloudify controller requests the BYON cloud driver to provision a machine for application installaion, the BYON cloud driver allocates one machine from the template associated with the service recipe.
Once the machine is allocated, the BYON cloud driver installs Cloudify, starts the Cloudify agent, and initiates the service installation process using the relevant service install script.

When there's an insufficient number of machines for allocation, the following exception will be thrown:
@Failed to create new cloud node, all nodes are currently used@
In this case, the application installation will not revert, just like it doesn't revert on other clouds. The Cloudify Controller will keep retrying and look for available machine to provision the service. You may stop the process by un-installing the application.

The BYON approach allows you to allocate different HW and SW stack to each application services, similar to a recipe running on a cloud where machines are provisioned and started in a dynamic manner.

h2. BYON Prerequisites 

Cloudify expects Java JDK , "(newwindow)wget":https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/ , "(newwindow)sed unix command":http://linux.about.com/od/commands/l/blcmdl1_sed.htm and "(newwindow)SSH":http://linux.about.com/od/commands/l/blcmdl1_ssh.htm to be installed on the machines specified on the Template pool. Please check the "Prerequisites page":/guide/setup/cloudify_prerequisites for more information.

h2. Configuring the BYON Driver

The main configuration file of the BYON is the byon-cloud.groovy which is located under &lt;Cloudify-Root&gt;/tools/cli/plugins/esc/byon.
The general structure of the byon-cloud.groovy file is:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/2222854.js"> </script>

Please modify the following attributes to include the relevant values:

h3. configuration Block

|_.Attribute|_.Description|
|remoteUsername|SSH username|
|remotePassword|SSH password|
|managementMachineTemplate|management machine template|

h3. provider Block

|_.Attribute|_.Description|
|provider | Should be "byon"|
|localDirectory| The local folder used to include the bootstrap-management.sh script |
|remoteDirectory| The folder used as Cloudify work folder|
|cloudifyUrl| The Cloudify URL location. |
|machineNamePrefix| Machine prefix|

h3. templates Block

By default you will have the "SMALL_LINUX_32" template. You may change this name and have multiple templates specified to fit your application needs. With each template you should specify the following:
* node id (id) - this is an alias for the host/VM.
* node ip (ip) - the IP of the host/VM. Cloudify uses private IP and assumes that the Cloudify client used to initiate the bootstrap and install process is in the same LAN as the IPs specified in the configuration file.

With the example below , vm1 ,vm2 and vm3 are listed as the SMALL_LINUX_32 template pool:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/2218634.js"> </script>

To associate the service with the SMALL_LINUX_32 template it should include the following:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/2219191.js"> </script>

h3. CIDR Configuration

In order to add machines without specifying specific IPs, you can use a range of machine IPs. For example, you can configure ipRange: 10.10.10.10-10.10.10.20, or CIDR 10.10.10.8/29 (which translates to range 10.10.10.8 - 10.10.10.15). 
The Ids for these cloud nodes would be generated based on the prefix you define, Cloudify will add an index to that prefix (e.g. vm1, vm2 etc.)
<script src="https://gist.github.com/2222903.js"> </script>

Please note the current version has a known issue: it supports only ranging on the last byte of the IP (meaning on the numbers that come after the last dot).

h3. bootstrap-management.sh

The bootstrap-management.sh script is used to install Cloudify on each remote machine , and start the agent. You might need to modify it to fit your environment. The following parameters can be set using this script:
- LUS_IP_ADDRESS - Ip of the head node that runs a LUS and ESM. May be my IP. (Required)
- GSA_MODE - 'agent' if this node should join an already running node. Otherwise, any value.
- NO_WEB_SERVICES - 'true' if web-services (rest, webui) should not be deployed (only if GSA_MODE != 'agent')
- MACHINE_IP_ADDRESS - The IP of this server (Useful if multiple NICs exist)
- MACHINE_ZONES - This is required if this is not a management machine
- WORKING_HOME_DIRECTORY - This is where the files were copied to (cloudify installation, etc..)
- CLOUDIFY_LINK - If this url is found, it will be downloaded to $WORKING_HOME_DIRECTORY/gigaspaces.zip

h2. Multiple Templates Usage

Multiple templates can be used, allowing you to have a separate pool for the Management Services and another pool for the Application Services:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/2218678.js"> </script>
In this case the services will include the right template:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/2219224.js"> </script>
The byon-cloud.groovy should include the following section:
<script src="https://gist.github.com/2219244.js"> </script>

Cloudify BYON driver allocates machines from the pool randomly. Future releases will support allocating machines based on the order specified within the pool.


h1. Using the BYON driver

In order to bootstrap the BYON driver, start the Cloudify shell and yype the following command:
   &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *bootstrap-cloud byon*

Cloudify Controller will be installed one the management machine. From that point you can install your application using the install-application command as usual.

h2. Tearing down the BYON installation

In order to shut down the installation, you need to use the un-install the application as usual and terminate the cloud using the teardown-cloud command using byon as cloud provider argument:
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *teardown-cloud byon*
