---
layout: default
title: The Bootstrapping Process
category: Bootstrapping
publish: true
abstract: Explains the bootsrapping process
pageord: 100
---
h1. The Bootstrapping process

Cloudify aims to minimize the prerequisites from a server (either virtual or physical) so that a standard operating system can run Cloudify immediately, without any special preinstalled software.
To achieve this, Cloudify connects to the provided host over SSH and uploads the required bootstrap files.
It's performed from *nix systems and Windows support is currently available only on Windows Azure, but will be available soon in other clouds as well.

The bootstrapping process usually includes a startup script (available under tools/cli/plugins/esc/&lt;Cloud-Provider-Name&gt;/upload/bootstrap-management.sh) and any required additional files, like an ssh key file. 
Once the files are uploaded, the bootstrap script is launched. 

The bootstrap-management.sh script is responsible for:
* Downloading the Cloudify installation (the source is configurable, and can include any FTP/HTTP/HTTPS server)
* Installing Java (required to run the Cloudify Agent)
* Installing Cloudify.
* Running the Cloudify agent.

Bootstrapping a management machine will launch the Cloudify controller processes, whereas bootstrapping a non-management will only launch the Cloudify agent, so that the Cloudify controller can use this machine to install and scale services.

Note that the bootstrapping script is aimed at handling the most common installation scenario, but some clouds, especially private clouds, require more tweaking to work correctly. 
By editing the bootstrap-management.sh script, administrators can modify the bootstrapping process to match their needs.

Common changes include:
* Setting up Network shares.
* Downloading the Cloudify installation from a local network resource, like an NFS share.
* Setting up the Java environment using an existing JDK (i.e. setting up JAVA_HOME) .

<br/>
You can "(newwindow)fork":https://github.com/CloudifySource/cloudify/blob/master/esc/config/bootstrap-management.sh the bootstrap-management.sh on GitHub or edit the file in tools/cli/plugins/esc/&lt;Cloud-Provider-Name&gt;/upload/bootstrap-management.sh in the Cloudify version that you have "(newwindow)donwloaded(Click here to download the Cloudify zip file)":http://bit.ly/ztbg9u .


