---
layout: default
title: Bootstrapping Cloudify on localcloud
category: Bootstrapping
publish: true
abstract: Explains how to bootstrap Cloudify on a localcloud
pageord: 2
---
h1. Starting the Cloudify Shell

Cloudify shell is used to bootstrap different Cloud environments and install your applications on them. To use the shell, simple go to your Cloudify Installation root folder, navigate to tools -> cli folder and run cloudify.bat or cloudify.sh depending on your OS 

h1. Bootstrapping the Local Cloud

The Local Cloud is a development environment that allows the user to run all Cloudify management services and application services on a single machine.
Bootstrapping the Local Cloud is extremely simple - just start the Cloudify shell and type: __bootstrap-localcloud__

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1744529.js?file=bootstrap_localcloud"></script>

Once completed, the shell will present the URL of the Web based UI and the and the Cloudify Contoller REST endpoint. The shell automatically connects to the controller as part of the bootstrap process, so you don't need to explicitly type the __connect__ command.
 Note however that if you exited from the shell this will not tear down the local cloud and it will keep on running until your explicitly tear it down (see below). If you started the shell again, and want it to connect back to the local cloud type __connect localhost__.
 This will reconnect it to the running local cloud environment.

h1. Tearing-Down the Local Cloud

To terminate all resources associated with the local cloud, type __tear-down localcloud__. This will uninstall any installed application, and shut down all local cloud process running on your local machine.
