---
layout: bt_wiki
title: Bootstrapping Any Cloud
category: Bootstrapping
publish: true
abstract: Explains how to bootstrap Cloudify on any cloud
pageord: 250
--- 

This topic provides instructions for bootstrapping Cloudify on any cloud provider.

h2. Prerequisites

Before you bootstrap your cloud, make sure that your environment meets all the minimum requirements. For more information, see "Bootstrapping Prerequisites":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process#prereqs.

The following is a list of supported cloud provider configurations :
(The cloud provider name that will be used for each configuration is in parentheses below)

* "Amazon EC2":../setup/configuring_ec2 (ec2)
* "HP OpenStack Cloud":../setup/configuring_openstack (openstack)
* "Azure (IaaS)":../setup/configuring_azure (azure)
* "RackSpace":../setup/configuring_rsopenstack (rsopenstack)
* "Any traditional data center [BYON]":../setup/configuring_byon (always use byon in this case)

h2. Bootstrapping

Bootstrapping a cloud is extremely simple, just follow the "bootstrapping":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process#boot procedure, typing the following command in step 2: *@bootstrap-cloud@* @cloudProviderName@
For example, for Amazon EC2, type : *@bootstrap-cloud@* @ec2@


h2(#tear). Teardown

To shut down the cloud environment, at the Cloudify shell prompt, type: *@teardown-cloud@* @cloudProviderName@
For example, for RackSpace type : *@teardown-cloud@* @rsopenstack@

h4(info). This uninstalls applications and shuts down all the management and service instance machines.