---
layout: bt_wiki
title: Bootstrapping a Local Cloud
category: Bootstrapping
publish: true
abstract: Explains how to bootstrap Cloudify on a local cloud
pageord: 200
---

A local cloud is a full-fledged cloud emulation environment that allows the user to run all Cloudify management and application services on a single machine.

<h4 class="impt">Check out <a href="http://www.cloudifysource.org/cloudifysourcetv#sqStQrvfgtg" rel="sqStQrvfgtg" class="youtube wtd" data-bitly-type="bitly_hover_card">this demo</a> to learn how to bootstrap Cloudify on a local cloud and install a recipe.</h4>

h2. Prerequisites

Before you bootstrap your local cloud, make sure that your environment meets all the minimum requirements. For more information, see "Bootstrapping Prerequisites":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process.html#prereqs.

h2. Bootstrapping

Bootstrapping the local cloud is extremely simple, just follow the "bootstrapping":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process.html#boot procedure, typing the following command in step 2: *@bootstrap-localcloud@*

h4(warn). If you exit the shell, the local cloud is not teared down and it will continue running until your explicitly "teardown":#tear the local cloud. If this happens, to teardown the cloud, start the Cloudify shell, and then at the prompt, type *@connect@* @localhost@. This will reconnect the shell to the local cloud environment.

h2(#tear). Teardown

To shut down the local cloud environment, at the Cloudify shell prompt, type: *@teardown-localcloud@*

h4(info). This uninstalls applications and shuts down all local cloud processes running on your machine.