---
layout: bt_wiki
title: Bootstrapping Any Cloud
category: Bootstrapping
publish: true
abstract: Explains how to bootstrap Cloudify on any cloud
pageord: 250
--- 

This topic provides instructions for bootstrapping Cloudify on any cloud provider.

h2. Prerequisites

Before you bootstrap your cloud, make sure that your environment meets all the minimum requirements. For more information, see "Bootstrapping Prerequisites":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process.html#prereqs.

The following is a list of supported cloud provider configurations :
(The cloud provider name that will be used for each configuration is in parentheses below)

* "Amazon EC2":../setup/configuring_ec2.html (ec2)
* "HP Cloud":../setup/configuring_hp.html (hp-folsom hp-grizzly hp-havana)
* "OpenStack Cloud":../setup/configuring_openstack.html (openstack-folsom openstack-grizzly openstack-havana)
* "Azure (IaaS)":../setup/configuring_azure.html (azure)
* "RackSpace":../setup/configuring_rsopenstack.html (rsopenstack)
* "Any traditional data center [BYON]":../setup/configuring_byon.html (always use byon in this case)

h2. Bootstrapping

Bootstrapping a cloud is extremely simple. Just follow the "bootstrapping":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process.html#boot procedure and type the following command: <span class="snippet">bootstrap-cloud cloudProviderName</span>
For example, for Amazon EC2, type : <span class="snippet">bootstrap-cloud ec2</span>

The above will use the cloud driver properties which are located in the cloudProviderName folder @<cloudifyRoot>/clouds/cloudProviderName@, but you can override these properties during bootstrapping.
To do so, simply type: <span class="snippet">bootstrap-cloud -cloud-overrides PATH_TO_PROPERTIES_FILE cloudProviderName</span>
For example, for Amazon EC2, type : <span class="snippet">bootstrap-cloud -cloud-overrides myFile.properties ec2</span>

h2(#tear). Teardown

To shut down the cloud environment, at the Cloudify shell prompt, type: <span class="snippet">teardown-cloud cloudProviderName</span>
For example, for RackSpace type : <span class="snippet">teardown-cloud rsopenstack</span>

h4(info). This uninstalls applications and shuts down all the management and service instance machines.