---
layout: bt_default
title: Install Cloudify Manager
cat: User Guide
---
<notextile>
<section id="inner-headline">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="span12">
        <ul class="breadcrumb">
          <li><a href="/"><i class="icon-home"></i></a><i class="icon-angle-right"></i></li>
          <li>Download<i class="icon-angle-right"></i></li>
          <li class="active">Install Cloudify Manager</li>
        </ul>
        <br/>
        <h1><i class="icon-cogs"></i>&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>How To Install Cloudify Manager On Your Cloud</strong></h1>  
      </div>
    </div>      
  </div>
</section>


  <section id="content">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row marginbot30 downloads">
      <div class="span12">
        <div class="row">
          <div class="span12">
            <div class="wrapper">
              <div class="testimonial">
                        
                
                               <!-- <div class="collapse" id="collapsible"> -->
                                    <div class="col-md-6">



<h2 class="name"><strong>Installing Cloudify Manager</strong></h2>

<p><strong>Step 1</strong>: First install Cloudify CLI by following the CLI package <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/3.3.1/installation/from-packages/">install instructions</a>.</p>

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning"><strong>Note</strong>: This method of installing Cloudify Manager is for users that have installed Cloudify CLI using one of our packages. To install Cloudify CLI via the Python script, follow the instructions <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/3.3.1/installation/from-script/">in our docs</a> and see the Manager installation (bootstrap) <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/3.3.1/manager/bootstrapping/">docs here</a>.</div>

<p><strong>Step 2</strong>: Initialize your Cloudify environment by running <code>cfy init</code> in your Cloudify terminal. You should see the following:</p>
<pre class="sh language-sh" data-lang="sh"> <code class="sh hljs bash"> 
$ cfy init
Initialization completed successfully

...
 </code> </pre>
<p><strong>Step 3</strong>: Edit the inputs.yaml file for your cloud provider located in the "/cloudify-manager-blueprints" folder of your installation with the required inputs.</p>
<p><strong>Step 4</strong>: Run the bootstrap (install) command for your cloud environment as follows:</p>
<pre class="sh language-sh" data-lang="sh"> <code class="sh hljs bash"> 
$ cfy bootstrap --install-plugins -p /path/to/manager/blueprint/file -i /path/to/inputs/yaml/file
...

 </code> </pre>

 <p>Wait between 10-20 minutes for configuration and you should see the following when complete:</p>
 <pre class="bash language-bash" data-lang="bash"> <code class="bash hljs"> 
...

bootstrapping complete
management server is up at &lt;YOUR MANAGER IP ADDRESS&gt;

...
 </code> </pre>
<p><strong>Step 5</strong>: Validate your installation by pointing your web browser to &lt;YOUR MANAGER IP ADDRESS&gt;:80 and you should see Cloudify’s Web UI. You now have an operational Cloudify Manager on the desired cloud provider!</p>

<p>Now, go back to your terminal and run <code>cfy status</code> to verify the manager is running correctly and you should see something like this:</p>
<pre class="sh language-sh" data-lang="sh"> <code class="sh hljs bash"> 
$ cfy status
...

Getting management services status... [ip=46.137.95.124]

Services:
+--------------------------------+---------+
|            service             |  status |
+--------------------------------+---------+
| InfluxDB                       | running |
| Celery Management              | running |
| Logstash                       | running |
| RabbitMQ                       | running |
| AMQP InfluxDB                  | running |
| Manager Rest-Service           | running |
| Cloudify UI                    | running |
| Webserver                      | running |
| Riemann                        | running |
| Elasticsearch                  | running |
+--------------------------------+---------+

...
 </code> </pre>

 <p>Now you are ready to <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/3.3.1/manager/upload-blueprint/">upload a blueprint</a> to your Manager in order to deploy your application. Learn more about <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/3.3.0/blueprints/overview/">blueprints here</a>.</p>


<!--<hr/>

<h2 class="name"><strong>Installing Cloudify Manager After Python CLI Script Install</strong></h2>
<p>This method of installing Cloudify Manager is for users that have installed Cloudify CLI using the "get-cloudify.py" script only. If you installed using one of our packages, please see the above instructions.</p>

<p><strong>Step 1:</strong> Ensure that you have properly installed <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/3.3.1/installation/from-script/">Cloudify CLI</a>.</p>
<p><strong>Step 2:</strong> Clone the "cloudify-manager-blueprints" repository from GitHub as follows:</p>
<pre class="bash language-bash" data-lang="bash"> <code class="bash hljs"> 
$ mkdir -p ~/cloudify-manager
$ <span class="hljs-built_in">cd</span> ~/cloudify-manager
$ git <span class="hljs-built_in">clone</span> https://github.com/cloudify-cosmo/cloudify-manager-blueprints
$ <span class="hljs-built_in">cd</span> cloudify-manager-blueprints
$ git checkout -b cloudify &lt;tag&gt;
...

 </code> </pre>
 <div class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning"><i>
    Make sure you use a &lt;tag&gt; from <a href="https://github.com/cloudify-cosmo/cloudify-manager-blueprints/releases">cloudify-manager-blueprints</a> that matches your Cloudify version. Blueprints taken from the master branch might not work for you.</i>
</div>

<p><strong>Step 3-6:</strong> Same as above steps 2-5.</p>-->

    <div class="clear"></div>
                                    </div>
                                
              
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
          
        </div>    
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  </section>

  

<div class="clear"></div>

{% include leadlanderform.html %}

</notextile>
