---
layout: bt_wiki
title: Cloudify Attributes Over REST
category: REST API
publish: true
abstract: Describes how to use access Cloudify attributes using the REST API
pageord: 100
---

Cloudify application and service attributes can be used to share information across an application. The context (scope) of the attribute determines which components can share it. The following is a list of the different attribute contexts:

* *Instance* -- Attributes in this context are set per service instance. For example, if you deploy 2 instances of Tomcat, you can use an instance context attribute to share their *port* value. 
* *Service* -- Attributes in this context are set per service. For example, if you deploy 2 instances of Tomcat, you can use a service context attribute to share the URL of the web server's management interface (e.g. @/tomcat-manager@) between all Tomcat instances.
* *Application* -- Attributes in this context are set per application. For example, you can use an application context attribute to share the URL of the *front-end* service of your application, like a load-balancer.
* *Global* -- Attributes in this context are shared between all instances, services, and the applications.

<br />
For example, let's say you deploy the PetClinic application that includes a Mongod service and would like to add a new Person entry to the database immediately after it is installed. The problem is that since the Mongod port and home folder are calculated when the service is started, you can't specify these details in your script. You can achieve your goal using the following steps:
# Write a script that adds a new Person to the database without specifying the database details.
# In the @preInstall@ step of the service "lifecycle":../developing/lifecycle_events.html#handler, set attributes for sharing Mongod's port (@port@) and home folder (@home@).
# In the @postStart@ step of the service "lifecycle":../developing/lifecycle_events.html#handler, call a batch file to retrieve Mongod's port and home folder, and then runs your script with the correct Mongod service details.

The following snippet shows how to implement the @postStart@ batch file using @curl@ for the REST query and batch commands to parse the results: 
<script src="https://gist.github.com/3181273.js"> </script>

h4(info). Cloudify uses the *USM_INSTANCE_ID* environment variable to store the instance ID of the service instance that calls your batch file, regardless of the operating system.

h2. Accessing Attributes over REST

The Accessing REST API can be accessed using any REST client, or the Cloudify shell using the *"list-attributes":../recipe/command_line_reference#list_attrs* and *"set-attributes":../recipe/command_line_reference.html#set_attrs* commands. The following table shows examples of how to access attributes.

<table class="alignTop">
<tr><th>Method</th><th>Command</th><th>Description</th></tr>
<tr><td>Cloudify shell</td><td>*@set-attributes@* @-scope@ _@global@_ @'{"home_folder":"d:\tomcat"}'@</td><td>Sets the @home_folder@ attribute in the *Global* context</td></tr>
<tr><td>Cloudify shell</td><td>*@list-attributes@* @-scope@ _@application@_</td><td>Lists attributes in the *Application* context</td></tr>
<tr><td>CURL REST Client</td><td>*@curl@* _@http://<HOST>:8100/attributes/applications/default@_</td><td>Lists attributes in the default *Application* context</td></tr>
<tr><td>CURL REST Client</td><td>*@curl@* _@http://<HOST>:8100/attributes/instances/@_&lt;applicationName&gt;/&lt;serviceName&gt; -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{&#34;&lt;key&gt;&#34;:&#34;&lt;value&gt;&#34;}'</td><td>Sets an attribute in the *Service* context</td></tr>
<tr><td>CURL REST Client</td><td>*@curl@* _@http://<HOST>:8100/attributes/instances/@_&lt;applicationName&gt;/&lt;serviceName&gt;/&lt;instanceId&gt;/&lt;key&gt; -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X DELETE</td><td>Deletes an attribute in the *Instance* context</td></tr>
</table>

h2. REST API Request Format

The following table shows the request formats for each attribute context, where @<HOST>@ is the address of the REST API host.
<table class="alignTop"><tr><th>Context</th><th>Request Method/Verb</th><th>Request Format</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">*Instance*</td><td>GET</td><td>*URL*: http://@<HOST>:8100@/attributes/instances/@<applicationName>@/@<serviceName>@/@<instanceId>@/@<attributeName>@</td><td>Gets one or more instance attributes where:<ul><li>@<applicationName>@ is the name of the application</li><li>@<serviceName>@ is the name of the service</li><li>@<instanceId>@ is the id of an instance of the service</li><li>@<attributeName>@ is the name of the attribute. Omit this value to get a list of all attributes for the specified instance</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>POST</td><td>*URL*: http://@<HOST>:8100@/attributes/instances/@<applicationName>@/@<serviceName>@/@<instanceId>@<br />*DATA*:  @<object>@</td><td>Sets one or more instance attributes where:<ul><li>@<applicationName>@ is the name of the application</li><li>@<serviceName>@ is the name of the service</li><li>@<instanceId>@ is the id of an instance of the service</li><li>@<object>@ is a JSON object that describes the attributes to be set</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">*Service*</td><td>GET</td><td>*URL*: http://@<HOST>:8100@/attributes/services/@<applicationName>@/@<serviceName>@/@<attributeName>@</td><td>Gets one or more service attributes where:<ul><li>@<applicationName>@ is the name of the application</li><li>@<serviceName>@ is the name of the service</li><li>@<attributeName>@ is the name of the attribute. Omit this value to get a list of all attributes for the specified service</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>POST</td><td>*URL*: http://@<HOST>:8100@/attributes/services/@<applicationName>@/@<serviceName>@<br />*DATA*:  @<object>@</td><td>Sets one or more service attributes where:<ul><li>@<applicationName>@ is the name of the application</li><li>@<serviceName>@ is the name of the service</li><li>@<object>@ is a JSON object that describes the attributes to be set</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">*Application*</td><td>GET</td><td>*URL*: http://@<HOST>:8100@/attributes/applications/@<applicationName>@/@<attributeName>@</td><td>Gets one or more application attributes where:<ul><li>@<applicationName>@ is the name of the application</li><li>@<attributeName>@ is the name of the attribute. Omit this value to get a list of all attributes for the specified application</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>POST</td><td>*URL*: http://@<HOST>:8100@/attributes/applications/@<applicationName>@<br />*DATA*: @<object>@</td><td>Sets one or more application attributes where:<ul><li>@<applicationName>@ is the name of the application</li><li>@<object>@ is a JSON object that describes the attributes to be set</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">*Global*</td><td>GET</td><td>*URL*: http://@<HOST>:8100@/attributes/globals/@<attributeName>@</td><td>Gets one or more global attributes where @<attributeName>@ is the name of the attribute. Omit this value to get a list of all attributes for the specified application.</td></tr><tr><td>POST</td><td>*URL*: http://@<HOST>:8100@/attributes/globals<br />*DATA*: @<object>@</td><td>Sets one or more global attributes where @<object>@ is a JSON object that describes the attributes to be set.</td></tr></table>