---
layout: bt_default
title: Cloudify 4.0.0 Release notes
cat: User Guide
---
<notextile>
<section id="inner-headline">
	<div class="container">
		<div class="row">
			<div class="span12">
				<ul class="breadcrumb">
					<li><a href="/"><i class="icon-home"></i></a><i class="icon-angle-right"></i></li>
					<li>Download<i class="icon-angle-right"></i></li>
					<li>Release Notes<i class="icon-angle-right"></i></li>
					<li class="active">4.0</li>
				</ul>
				<br/>
				<h1><i class="icon icon-book"></i>&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Cloudify 4.0.0 Release Notes</strong></h1>	
			</div>
		</div>			
	</div>
</section>


	<section id="content">
	<div class="container">
				<div class="row">
					<div class="span12">
						<div class="wrapper">
							<div class="testimonial">
									
<h2><strong><span style="font-size: 28px">Cloudify 4.0.1 (9-MAY-2017)</span></strong></h2>
<div class="btn btn-info btn-sm aligncenter"><a href="/downloads/releasenotes/4.0.1_Release_Notes.pdf" download><font color="white">Download Release Notes in PDF</font></a>
                        </div>
<h1><span>4.0.1 Service Pack (8-May-2017)</span></h1>
<h3><span>Highlights</span></h3>
<ul>
<li><span> </span><span>Support has been added for the complete uninstallation of Cloudify, using the </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">cfy teardown</span><span> command.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><span>Cloudify Manager no longer uses a </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">root </span><span>user for its operation.</span></li>
</ul>
<h3><span>Upgrading Cloudify Manager 4.0.0</span></h3>
<p><span>Use the following procedure to upgrade Cloudify Manager 4.0.0 to version 4.0.1 or later, on the same VM, with the same IP address.</span></p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong><span> To upgrade on a new virtual machine, see </span><a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/installation/bootstrapping/bootstrapping/#option-1-installing-a-cloudify-manager-image"><span>the documentation</span></a><span>.</span></p>
<h5><strong>Prerequisites</strong></h5>
<p><span>To work with existing agents, the broker credentials that you pass as inputs must be the same as those specified for the Manager that you are updating. Make a note of the credentials of the existing Cloudify Manager before you tear it down.</span></p>
<h5><strong>Procedure</strong></h5>
<ol>
<li><span> </span><span>Run the following command to take a snapshot of Cloudify Manager 4.0.0 and download it.:</span></li>
</ol>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">cfy snapshots create my_snapshot</span></p>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">cfy snapshots download my_snapshot -o {{ /path/to/the/snapshot/file }}</span></p>
<ol start="2">
<li><span> </span><span>(Optional) If you have Cloudify agents with which you want the new instance of Cloudify Manager to communicate, using SSH, on the Manager VM run the following command to save the SSL directory in another location (for example, the home directory:</span></li>
</ol>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">cp -r /etc/cloudify/ssl {{ your home dir, I.E: /home/centos }}</span></p>
<ol start="3">
<li><span> </span><span>Tear down Cloudify Manager 4.0.0, </span><span>using the procedure described </span><span>here</span><span>.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/installation/#option-2-bootstrapping-a-cloudify-manager"><span>Bootstrap</span></a><span> a new Cloudify Manager on the same VM.</span></li>
</ol>
<p><span>To use the agents from the previous Cloudify Manager make sure that you pass the same </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">rabbitmq_username</span><span> and </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">rabbitmq_password</span><span> as you did when bootstrapping the original Manager. If you did not pass any username or password, do not pass them during bootstrapping the new Manager, in which case the default values will be used. If you used a Cloudify Manager 4.0.0 image,- both values are </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">cloudify</span><span>.</span></p>
<ol start="5">
<li><span> </span><span>Run the following commands to restore the snapshot from the old Manager on the new Manager.</span></li>
</ol>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">cfy snapshots upload {{ /path/to/the/snapshot/file }} --snapshot-id my_snapshot</span></p>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">cfy snapshots restore my_snapshot</span></p>
<p><span>After the execution is complete, you can run the following command to check it&rsquo;s status:</span></p>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">cfy executions list --include-system-workflows</span></p>
<ol start="6">
<li><span> </span><span>(Optional) ) If you have Cloudify agents with which you want the new instance of Cloudify Manager to communicate, using SSH on the Manager VM run the following command to replace the new Manager&rsquo;s SSL directory with the one you copied from the previous Manager .</span></li>
</ol>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">sudo rm -rf /etc/cloudify/ssl</span></p>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">sudo cp -r {{ previously saved ssl dir, I.E: /home/centos/ssl }} /etc/cloudify</span></p>
<p><span>To ensure that the directory has Read permissions, run:</span></p>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">sudo chmod -R 644 /etc/cloudify/ssl</span></p>
<ol start="7">
<li><span> </span><span>Reboot the Manager VM.</span></li>
</ol>
<p><span>You can verify the changes have been successfully implemented by running </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">cfy status</span><span>.</span></p>
<h3><span>Tearing Down Cloudify 4.0.0</span></h3>
<p><span>This procedure describes how to tear down Cloudify Manager 4.0.0 while keeping the VM alive. You must use this procedure if you want to reinstall or upgrade Cloudify Manager 4.0.0 on the same VM.</span></p>
<h5><strong>Procedure</strong></h5>
<ol>
<li><span> </span><span>(Optional) To keep your existing data, take a snapshot and download it:</span></li>
</ol>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">cfy snapshots create my_snapshot</span></p>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">cfy snapshots download my_snapshot -o {{ /path/to/the/snapshot/file }}</span></p>
<ol start="2">
<li><span> </span><span>Using SSH, on the Manager VM run the following commands to download the teardown script and run it as </span><span>sudo</span><span>.</span></li>
</ol>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">curl -o ~/cfy_teardown_4_0_0.sh </span><a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cloudify-cosmo/cloudify-dev/master/scripts/cfy_teardown_4_0_0.sh"><span>https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cloudify-cosmo/cloudify-dev/master/scripts/cfy_teardown_4_0_0.sh</span></a></p>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">sudo bash cfy_teardown_4_0_0.sh</span><span> &nbsp;(You must supply a </span><span>-f</span><span> flag.)</span></p>
<ol start="3">
<li><span> </span><span>It is recommended that you remove the profile directory of this Manager from your local </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">~/.cloudify/profiles</span><span> directory:</span></li>
</ol>
<p><span style="font-family: Courier New">rm -rf ~/.cloudify/profiles/{{ your Manager&rsquo;s ip }}</span></p>
<p><span>The Manager is removed from the VM, and you can bootstrap a new Manager of version 4.0.0, or higher) on the same VM.</span></p>
<h3><span>Fixed Issues</span></h3>
<ul>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6794"><span>CFY-6794</span></a><span> - You can now use </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">teardown </span><span>to uninstall Cloudify.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6740"><span>CFY-6740</span></a><span> - Ctx runtime properties now work as expected in Cloudify Manager blueprints.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6718"><span>CFY-6718</span></a><span> - </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">restore snapshot</span><span> now works with different schemas.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6711"><span>CFY-6711</span></a><span> - Cloudify Manager image configuration restarts the rabbitmq service after certificates creation on first boot.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6663"><span>CFY-6663</span></a><span> - The issue in which a </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">user</span><span> saw an incorrect number of &nbsp;node-instances in the Cloudify Web interface has been addressed.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6660"><span>CFY-6660</span></a><span> - The issue in which the `_include=created_by` property in the REST API did not work, has been addressed.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6709"><span>CFY-6709</span></a><span> - The issue in which the Events API did not filter responses has been addressed.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-308"><span>STAGE-308</span></a><span> - The issue in which the Cloudify Web interface failed to scale a simple &ldquo;hello world&rdquo; blueprint has been addressed.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-262"><span>STAGE-262</span></a><span> - An environment variable has been added to enable certificate authentication in the Cloudify Web interface.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-299"><span>STAGE-299</span></a><span> - You cannot restore snapshots from the Cloudify Web interface.</span></li>
</ul>
<h3><span>Tasks</span></h3>
<ul>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6828"><span>CFY-6828</span></a><span> - Add stage DB migration revision to snapshot metadata.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6775"><span>CFY-6775</span></a><span> - When you create a snapshot, the Cloudify Manager certificate is also saved.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6744"><span>CFY-6744</span></a><span> - Encryption keys are autogenerated on the master node of a cluster.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6722"><span>CFY-6722</span></a><span> - Multiple local profiles are supported by default.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6245"><span>CFY-6245</span></a><span> - REST service logging configuration should be parameterized.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-267"><span>STAGE-267</span></a><span> - In the Cloudify Web interface Deployments page, node statuses that have no nodes (number is 0) are gray.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-258"><span>STAGE-258</span></a><span> - Only blueprint samples are displayed in the Blueprint Catalog repository.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-225"><span>STAGE-225</span></a><span> - You can use</span><span> ""</span><span> as an empty string for input values.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-190"><span>STAGE-190</span></a><span> - A </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">creator </span><span>field has been added to </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">blueprints</span><span>, </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">deployments</span><span>, </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">snapshots</span><span>, </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">plugins </span><span>and </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">executions </span><span>resources.</span></li>
</ul>
<h3><span>Known Issues</span></h3>
<ul>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-312"><span>STAGE-312</span></a><span> - In the Cloudify Web interfaces, if you view &nbsp;a workflows that requires inputs in the </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">Execute workflow</span><span>, and you do not refresh the page, when you attempt to run the </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">install </span><span>workflow, the execution fails.</span></li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-286">STAGE-286</a> - When you click <strong>Create new deployment</strong> on the Deployments page, an error is generated and the process cannot continue. <strong>Workaround</strong>: Create deployments by clicking <strong>Create deployment</strong> on the drilldown page of the appropriate blueprint, which you access by clicking on the blueprint in the local blueprints.</li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6726"><span>CFY-6726</span></a><span> - You should use </span><span style="font-family: Courier New">--allow-custom-parameters</span><span> to </span><span>uninstall blueprints that import </span><span>types.yaml</span><span> earlier than version 4.0.</span></li>
<li><span> </span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6907"><span>CFY-6907</span></a><span> - The </span><span>teardown script</span><span> is not supported for version 4.0.x clusters.</span></li>
</ul>
<br>
<hr>
								<!-- <div class="collapse" id="collapsible"> -->

                                    <div class="row">
                                    <div class="span10">

                         <h2><strong><span style="font-size: 28px">Cloudify 4.0.0 GA (31-MAR-2017)</span></strong></h2>
                                                             <div class="row">
                                    <div class="span12">

                        <div width="100%" text-align="left" class="">
                                 <p class="text-left">
                        <div style="margin-left:20px; overflow: hidden; display: inline-block;" class="btn btn-info btn-sm"><a href="#whatsnew"><font color="white">What's New</font></a>
                        </div>
                        <div style="margin-left:20px; overflow: hidden; display: inline-block;" class="btn btn-info btn-sm"><a href="#migrating"><font color="white">Migrating from 3.4.x to 4.0.0</font></a>
                        </div>
                        <div style="margin-left:20px; overflow: hidden; display: inline-block;" class="btn btn-info btn-sm"><a href="#new"><font color="white">New Features</font></a>
                        </div>
                        <div style="margin-left:20px; overflow: hidden; display: inline-block;" class="btn btn-info btn-sm"><a href="#addressed"><font color="white">Issues Addressed</font></a>
                        </div>
                        <div style="margin-left:20px; overflow: hidden; display: inline-block;" class="btn btn-info btn-sm"><a href="#known"><font color="white">Known Issues</font></a>
                                </div>
                        <div style="margin-left:20px; overflow: hidden; display: inline-block;" class="btn btn-theme btn-sm"><a href="http://getcloudify.org/downloads/releasenotes/4.0_Release_Notes.pdf" download><font color="white">Download Release Notes in PDF</font></a><a name="whatsnew"></a>
                        </div>

                        <!--<div style="margin-left:20px; overflow: hidden; display: inline-block;" class="btn btn-theme btn-sm"><a href="http://getcloudify.org/downloads/releasenotes/3.4_Release_Notes.pdf" download><font color="white">Download Release Notes in PDF</font></a>
                        </div>  -->
                                 </p> 
                                 
                                 
                                 <a id="whatsnew>"></a>
                                 
                        </div>
                        </div>
                        </div>


<p class=MsoNormal><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p>

<h2><a name="_kbcd2g9km12h"></a>What’s New?</h2>

<h3><a name="_ectxfucrs4ju"></a>Cloudify Manager </h3>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l3 level1 lfo16'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/manager/implement-multi-tenancy/"><b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span>Multi-Tenancy</span></b></a>
This version of Cloudify introduces the concept of multiple tenants in Cloudify
Manager, for Premium customers. Multi-tenancy enables you to create multiple
independent logical groups as isolated environments that can be managed by a
single Cloudify Manager. A tenant is a logical entity that contains all its
resources, for example blueprints, deployments and workflows. All operations
are performed within a tenant. <br>
<br>
A single default tenant is created during Cloudify Manager installation, and
you add other tenants as required. You can assign users and user groups to each
tenant and assign user roles, enabling you to specify the content within
Cloudify Manager that users are able to access and manage. User management can
be integrated with your LDAP/AD setup.<br>
<br>
In the case of Community Edition users, a
single tenant with a single user is created during installation. When you log
into Cloudify Manager, the built-in credentials are used.<br>
<br>
The default tenant cannot be deleted. <br>
</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l3 level1 lfo16'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/manager/high-availability-clusters/"><b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span>Clustering
Cloudify Managers for High Availability</span></b></a><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'> </b>Premium customers now have the ability to cluster multiple
Cloudify Manager instances, to ensure resilience in the event of a manager
becoming unavailable. <br>
<br>
One Cloudify Manager is designated as the active manager and the others (two)
are designated as hot standbys that are constant mirrors of the data of the
active manager. In the event that the active Cloudify Manager fails, an
automatic failover switch activates one of the hot standbys. <br
style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![if !supportLineBreakNewLine]><br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![endif]></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l3 level1 lfo16'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/manager_webui/configure-display/"><b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span>User Interface</span></b></a>
A new user interface is displayed on Cloudify Manager. The user interface
enables you to create dashboards that are:</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l3 level2 lfo16'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Easily and intuitively configured,
to build a personalized view of the specific data that most interests you</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l3 level2 lfo16'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Write your own widgets, whether
their data is Cloudify based or from external systems, and to integrate them as
part of your Cloudify dashboard.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l3 level2 lfo16'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Support different views, according
to the user role.<br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![if !supportLineBreakNewLine]><br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![endif]></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-pagination:widow-orphan lines-together;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo12'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'><span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/manager/implement-multi-tenancy/"><b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span>LDAP
Integration</span></b></a> LDAP/AD (a Premium user feature) integration is
improved from previous versions. You configure Cloudify with the LDAP
configuration during the bootstrap process, or via the API (on a clean Cloudify
Manager.) <br>
<br>
When a user logs in to Cloudify Manager, their credentials are passed to the
LDAP/AD service for authentication. Following authentication, the user is able
to access any tenants in the Cloudify Manager to which they have been assigned,
either as an individual or as part of an assigned LDAP group.<br>
<br>
LDAP<span style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span>passwords are no longer stored in
the Cloudify database. Authentication is performed via LDAP and a token is
generated and used for the user session.</p>

<h2><a name="_83o411jas8m3"></a>Web User Interface</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l16 level1 lfo4'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>The Web user interface, for
Premium edition users, has been upgraded to provide a more streamlined user
experience. </p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l16 level2 lfo4'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Out-of-the-box dashboards display
widgets for the most commonly required data and viewing preferences.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l16 level2 lfo4'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>The dashboards are customizable so
that you can e<span style='color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>asily
and intuitively configure them to build a personalized view for the specific
data that interests you most.</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l16 level2 lfo4'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='color:#222222;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'>You can create your own dashboard pages.</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l16 level2 lfo4'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='color:#222222;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'>You can write your own widgets,
regardless of whether their data is Cloudify-based or derived from external
systems, and integrate them as part of your Cloudify dashboards.</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l16 level2 lfo4'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='color:#222222;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'>The display of different views according
to the user roles (users/admins) is supported.</span></p>

<h2><a name="_abm6ej82100x"></a>Cloudify Command-Line Interface</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level1 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>The following commands have been
added to the CLI:</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level2 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>profiles<b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'> </b><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level2 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>tenants<b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'> <o:p></o:p></b></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level2 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cluster<b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span><o:p></o:p></b></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level2 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>users<b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span><o:p></o:p></b></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level2 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>user-groups<b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span><o:p></o:p></b></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level2 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>ldap</span></span><b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span><o:p></o:p></span></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level1 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>The following commands have been
removed from the CLI:</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level2 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>recover<b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span><o:p></o:p></b></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l8 level2 lfo1'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9675;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>teardown<b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'> <o:p></o:p></b></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l0 level1 lfo12'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'><span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Technical Preview Feature</b><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> <br>
</span></b>In the CLI, you can create resources that are private to your
account that will not be shared across the tenant. The CLI optional argument is
<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>--private-resource</span>.</p>

<h2><a name="_7hg0m7xi6454"></a><a
href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/manager_architecture/security/"><span
style=''>Security</span></a></h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:
8.0pt;margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l18 level1 lfo17'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='
line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>Cloudify
includes built-in user roles with which users are associated. Each role has
different permissions, ensuring a role-based access control operation.<br>
<br>
Cloudify supports the concept of users, user groups, and tenants. These
elements can be either defined locally in Cloudify, or taken from an external
user management system (LDAP integration is native). In the latter case,
passwords are not stored in Cloudify, authentication is performed via LDAP and
a token is generated and used for the user session.<br>
<br>
Communication from the outside world to Cloudify Manager and its SSL/TLS
configuration is the user’s responsibility (CA/host verification, etc.), where
the endpoints include the UI and REST API. <br>
<br>
If an self-signed certificate is used, you must use the following commands from
the UI machine in order for the UI to be available:</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:8.0pt;
margin-left:1.0in'><span style='line-height:115%;font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";color:#333333;background:
white;mso-highlight:white;mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'>/<span class=SpellE>etc</span>/<span
class=SpellE>sysconfig</span>/cloudify-stage</span><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><span style='line-height:115%;font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'><br>
</span></b><span style='line-height:115%;font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>NODEJS_HOME=/opt/<span class=SpellE>nodejs</span><br>
STAGE_HOME=/opt/cloudify-stage<br>
NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=0<o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-top:8.0pt;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:0in;
margin-left:.5in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'><span style='
line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>Then run </span><span
class=SpellE><span style='line-height:115%;font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>sudo</span></span><span style='
line-height:115%;font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";
color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> <span class=SpellE>systemctl</span>
restart cloudify-stage</span><span style='line-height:115%;
color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> to restart the cloudify-stage
service.</span><span style='line-height:115%;font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'><br>
<br>
</span><span style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:
white;mso-highlight:white'>Communication between Cloudify agents and Cloudify
Manager (and within Cloudify Manager) is the responsibility of Cloudify, and is
determined by Cloudify. Cloudify generates the necessary certificates for
internal communication.<br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![if !supportLineBreakNewLine]><br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![endif]><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l18 level1 lfo17'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><span style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'>SSL is enabled for agent-manager
communication. All communications between the client the server are encrypted.
When a connection is established, Cloudify Manager presents a signed
certificate to the client. The client can use that certificate to validate the
authenticity of the manager.<br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![if !supportLineBreakNewLine]><br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![endif]><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:
8.0pt;margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l18 level1 lfo17'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><span style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'>A secret store is implemented inside the
Cloudify PostgreSQL database, which provides a tenant-wide variable store.<br
style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![if !supportLineBreakNewLine]><br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![endif]><o:p></o:p></span></p>
<a id="migrating"></a>
<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:
8.0pt;margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l18 level1 lfo17'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><span style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'>Security operations, such as
authenticating success or failure and user details, are audited in dedicated
log file on the management server.<o:p></o:p></span></p>

<h1><a name="_tsjfx2vn1u8m"></a>Migrating from Cloudify 3.4.x to Cloudify 4.0.0</h1>

<p class=MsoNormal style='page-break-after:avoid'>To migrate from Cloudify
3.4.x to Cloudify 4.0.0, you must create a snapshot of your 3.4.x machine, to
upload to Cloudify 4.0.0. Follow this procedure perform the migration.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='page-break-after:avoid'><span style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
bold'><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='page-break-after:avoid'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Migration Procedure<o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='page-break-after:avoid'><span style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
bold'><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span
style=';line-height:115%'>P</span></b><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><span style='font-size:10.0pt;line-height:115%'>REREQUISITE<o:p></o:p></span></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormal>Before taking the snapshot, verify that there are not <span
style='color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>any instances of
node ID or deployment ID that include an underscore. For example, change </span><span
class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New";color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>node_ID</span></span><span
style='color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> to </span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";
color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>node-ID</span><span
style='color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>.</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level1 lfo11'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'>1.<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'> </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span>Take a snapshot of Cloudify 3.4.x according to the <a
href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/3.4.2/manager/snapshots/"><span
style=''>installation instructions</span></a><span
style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span>in the Cloudify 3.4.x documentation.<span
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level1 lfo11'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'>2.<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'> </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span>Install Cloudify 4.0.0 according to the <a
href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/installation/installation-overview/"><span
style=''>installation instructions</span></a> in the Cloudify
4.0.0 documentation.<span style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level1 lfo11'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'>3.<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'> </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span>On the newly installed manager, upload and restore the 3.4.x
snapshot. <br>
You can restore a snapshot to a Manager that does not have any data on it
(clean), or to one with existing content.<br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![if !supportLineBreakNewLine]><br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![endif]><span style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.5in'><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'>Note: </b>The snapshot is uploaded to the tenant on which you performed
the upload operation.<br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![if !supportLineBreakNewLine]><br style='mso-special-character:line-break'>
<![endif]></p>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.5in'>Restore the uploaded snapshot into
a specific tenant by specifying a new (unique) tenant name. The tenant is
created as part of the restore process, and is populated with the snapshot
content.<span style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level2 lfo11'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'>&#9675;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'> </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span>Restoration using the CLI is described <a
href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/cli/snapshots/"><span style=''>here</span></a>.<span style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'><o:p></o:p></span></p>
<a id="new"></a>
<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:1.0in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l6 level2 lfo11'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'>&#9675;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'> </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span>Restoration from the UI is described <a
href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/manager_webui/plugins-snapshots-page/"><span
style=''>here</span></a>.<span style='mso-bidi-font-weight:bold'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<h1 style='margin-top:14.0pt'><a name="_kaza3c7vbpsp"></a>New Features</h1>

<p class=MsoTitle style='margin-bottom:0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'><a
name="_3pzemyrlgfvz"></a><span style='font-size:11.0pt;line-height:115%'>The
following new features are available in this release:<o:p></o:p></span></p>

<h2><a name="_gok2egssww3"></a>Bootstrapping/Installation</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l9 level1 lfo8'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6380"><span
style=''>CFY-6380</span></a><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6380"><span
style='line-height:137%;color:#3B73AF;background:white;
mso-highlight:white;text-decoration:none;text-underline:none'> </span></a>-
Cloudify agent installations on Windows are now located under %PROGRAM FILES%.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l9 level1 lfo8'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6092"><span
style=''>CFY-6092</span></a> - <span class=SpellE>Elasticsearch</span>
has been replaced by PostgreSQL, which is installed during Cloudify Manager
bootstrapping.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:150%;mso-list:l9 level1 lfo8'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-XXXX"><span
style=''>CFY-4837</span></a> - Bootstrapping can now run on ports
other than port 22.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-top:10.0pt;margin-right:60.0pt;
margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:.5in;margin-bottom:.0001pt;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:150%;mso-list:l9 level1 lfo8'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-size:9.5pt;line-height:150%;color:#222222;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6145"><span
style=';background:white;mso-highlight:white'>CFY-6145</span></a><span
style='font-size:9.5pt;line-height:150%;color:#222222;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'> -</span> <span style='color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>The bootstrap </span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>admin </span><span style='color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>user cannot be deleted or modified.</span><span
style='font-size:9.5pt;line-height:150%;color:#222222;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-top:10.0pt;margin-right:60.0pt;
margin-bottom:0in;margin-left:.5in;margin-bottom:.0001pt;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:150%;mso-list:l9 level1 lfo8'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-size:9.5pt;line-height:150%;color:#222222;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6146"><span
style=';background:white;mso-highlight:white'>CFY-6146</span></a><span
style='font-size:9.5pt;line-height:150%;color:#222222;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'> </span><span style='color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>- Only the bootstrap admin can restore v4.x snapshots.</span><span
style='font-size:9.5pt;line-height:150%;color:#222222;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<h2><a name="_2haif4fe6h6j"></a>Cloudify Manager</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l7 level1 lfo2'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6129"><span
style=''>CFY-6129</span></a> - `<span class=SpellE>logstash</span>
<span class=SpellE>jdbc</span>` and `<span class=SpellE>postgresql</span>`
plugins have been added to the Cloudify Manager resources file.<span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l7 level1 lfo2'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6000"><span
style=''>CFY-6000</span></a> - <span style='
line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>High
Availability functionality has been added to Cloudify MANAGER to the manager</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l7 level1 lfo2'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6075"><span
style=''>CFY-6075</span></a> - Database replication has been added
as part of the HA configuration.</p>

<h2><a name="_nv556qgufowi"></a>Security</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6184"><span
style='line-height:115%;'>CFY-6184</span></a><span
style='line-height:115%'> - </span>LDAP passwords are no
longer stored in the Cloudify DB.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6497"><span
style=''>CFY-6497</span></a> - Generate internal SSL certificates
on Cloudify manager image first boot.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6514"><span
style=''>CFY-6514</span></a> - Sync security configuration files</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6365"><span
style=''>CFY-6365</span></a> - Automatically-generated SSL certificates
are passed from Cloudify Manager to the agent during the agent’s creation.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6370"><span
style=''>CFY-6370</span></a> - Permissions are verified for every
file server request.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6435"><span
style=''>CFY-6435</span></a> - To enable secure communication
between the agent and the Cloudify Manager, file server credentials are passed
to the agent.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6364"><span
style=''>CFY-6364</span></a> - An SSL certificate for Cloudify
Manager/agent communication is automatically generated during bootstrapping.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6369"><span
style=''>CFY-6369</span></a> - An API call has been created that
validates the permission of a user to access a file server resource.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l1 level1 lfo3'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333'><span style='mso-list:
Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6367"><span
style=''>CFY-6367</span></a> - All internal (agent/<span
class=SpellE>mgmtworker</span> to rest service) REST communications are now SSL
encrypted over port 53333.<span style='line-height:137%;
color:#333333'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l1 level1 lfo3'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333'><span style='mso-list:
Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6492"><span
style=''>CFY-6492</span></a> - File server access is now possible
only through port 53333 (with the suffix `/resources`) and is also SSL
encrypted<span style='line-height:137%;color:#333333'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l1 level1 lfo3'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6319"><span
style=''>CFY-6319</span></a> - You can generate random salt and
secret key during bootstrapping.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l1 level1 lfo3'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='font-size:9.5pt;line-height:115%;color:#222222;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6236"><span
style=''>CFY-6236</span></a><span style='font-size:9.5pt;
line-height:115%;color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> - </span>Validate
manager credentials when using `<span class=SpellE>cfy</span> profiles
set/unset`<span style='font-size:9.5pt;line-height:115%;color:#222222;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l1 level1 lfo3'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5948"><span
style='line-height:137%;;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>CFY-5948</span></a> - Enforce user authentication and
authorization by default (replace <span class=SpellE>flask_securest</span>).<span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormal><o:p>&nbsp;</o:p></p>

<h2><a name="_oc3r85fphz9f"></a>CLI</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;page-break-after:avoid;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6236"><span
style=''>CFY-6236</span></a><span style='font-size:9.5pt;
line-height:115%;color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> - </span>Cloudify
Manager credentials are validated when using `<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
profiles set/unset</span>`</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;page-break-after:avoid;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6472"><span
style=''>CFY-6472</span></a> - A default maximum for workflow
operation retries (60) has been specified.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6502"><span
style=''>CFY-6502</span></a> - <span class=SpellE>The`<span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
cluster set-active</span>` command is supported</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6349"><span
style=''>CFY-6349</span></a> - During boot-up, if the `<span
class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>set_manager_ip_on_boot</span></span>` parameter is set to `<span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>true</span>`,
the Cloudify Manager image updates the private IP address of Cloudify Manager,
assuming that `<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>admin_password</span></span>` has been
specified.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6350"><span
style=''>CFY-6350</span></a> - The `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>get Cloudify version</span>`, `<span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>get
user tenants</span>` and `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>get user token</span>` requests can be implemented without a
specific tenant having to be specified.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6382"><span
style=''>CFY-6382</span></a> - The <span class=SpellE>service_name</span>
property has been added to the Cloudify agent <span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>AgentConfig</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> </span>data
type</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5821"><span
style=''>CFY-5821</span></a> - Snapshots are managed via
PostgreSQL, but it is still possible to load older <span class=SpellE>Elasticsearch</span>-based
snapshots.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5509"><span
style=''>CFY-5509</span></a> - <span class=SpellE>cfy</span>
plugins upload support use of a URL</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-XXXX"><span
style=''>CFY-5296</span></a> - <span style='color:#333333;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'>‘</span><span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";
color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";
color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> * list</span><span
style='color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>’ supports sorting</span>.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5451"><span
style=''>CFY-5451</span></a> - `<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> events
list</span>` now includes logs by default. You can use the `<span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>--no-log</span>s`
flag to hide logs.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6130"><span
style=''>CFY-6130</span></a> - ‘<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";
color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";
color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> profile</span><span
style='color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>’ commands have been
rearranged.</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6135"><span
style=''>CFY-6135</span></a> - ‘<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";
color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";
color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> use</span><span
style='color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>’ and ‘</span><span
class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New";color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";
color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> profile’s</span><span
style='color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> have been
consolidated.<o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Context-dependent commands are now
available, according to whether a manager is being used.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> <span
class=SpellE>init</span></span>` is no longer required before `<span
class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> use</span>` or `<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
bootstrap</span>`.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>The<span
style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span>`<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> use</span>`
flag has been added to set user and <span class=SpellE>ssh</span>-key path.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> local</span>`
has been removed, to consolidate its commands with “manager” commands. </p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>.cloudify</span>` now resides under `<span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>~</span>`
unless an environment variable called `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>CFY_WORKDIR</span>` is set, in which
case it is switched to that dir.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>A profile is now created per
manager. To that end, `<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> profiles</span>` is
introduced. It provides the `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>list</span>`, `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>delete</span>`, `<span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>import</span>` and `<span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>export</span>`
commands.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Importing and exporting profiles
can include SSH keys via the `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>--include-keys</span>` flag.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> <span
class=SpellE>init</span> -r</span>` no longer resets logger and coloring
configuration. Use the `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>--hard</span>` flag.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Replace flags with positional
arguments where necessary. </p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>`--skip-logging</span>` is removed from
`<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> <span class=SpellE>init</span></span>`.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>The `<span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>--debug</span>` flag,
which was an alias for `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>-<span class=SpellE>vvv</span></span>` is removed..</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Names for blueprints and
deployments are always automatically generated, unless there is a blueprint or
deployment already with the same name. Names can still be explicitly specified.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Task retry related flags have been
added to `<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> teardown</span>`.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
blueprints publish-archive</span>` has been deleted. `<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
blueprints upload</span>` can now receive a path to a local <span class=SpellE>yaml</span>,
a path to a local archive, or the URL of an archive. If an archive is <span
class=SpellE>is</span> provided, the `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>--blueprint-filename</span>` flag is now
mandatory.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l17 level1 lfo7'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> inputs</span>`
has been added to enable local context inputs.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>output</span>` flags have all been
renamed to `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>output-path</span>`.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>all `<span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>--force</span>`-like flags
have been renamed to `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>--force</span>`.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Bootstrap validations are ignored
when <span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>`--skip-validations</span>`
is provided in `<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> upgrade</span>`.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>A `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>--skip-sanity</span>` flag is now
available for to the bootstrap process.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> instal</span>l`
and `<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> blueprints upload</span>` can now
receive either a local path to a <span class=SpellE>yaml</span>, local path to
an archive, URL to an archive and a Docker/Vagrant-like string to a repository.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> profiles
export</span>` can now receive the `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>--include-keys</span>` flag, which
includes the SSH keys (if applicable) of the profiles in the archive. `<span
class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> profiles import</span>` imports any
keys in the archive and places them in their original paths.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
profiles get-active</span>` prints out the currently used profile. <span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>`<span
class=SpellE>cfy</span> profiles list</span>` now shows an asterisk next to the
active profile.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>`<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
blueprints upload</span>` and `<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
install</span>` now auto-generates blueprint and deployment names only once per
blueprint.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>`<span class=SpellE>cfy</span>
blueprints package</span>` has been added. This command packages a blueprint
into a tar.gz or ZIP archive according to the OS. This archive is installable
or <span class=SpellE>uploadable</span> via `<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
install</span>` and `<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> blueprints upload</span>`.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Setting the <span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>env</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> <span
class=SpellE>var</span> CFY_MULTIPLE_BLUEPRINTS</span> to `<span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>true</span>`
enables you to initialize multiple blueprints locally. </p>

<h2><a name="_43kdlpbp254n"></a>Orchestration</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;page-break-after:avoid;mso-list:l14 level1 lfo13'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6389"><span
style=''>CFY-6389</span></a> - The `<span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>CloudifySettings</span></span>`
blueprint has been removed from Cloudify Manager images.<span style='font-size:
10.5pt;line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l14 level1 lfo13'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5665"><span
style=''>CFY-5665</span></a><span style='color:#333333'> - Remove
transient deployment workers mode configuration from manager blueprints</span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6319"><span
style=''>CFY-6319</span></a> - You can generate random salt and
secret key during bootstrapping.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6336"><span
style=''>CFY-6336</span></a> - The token API now returns a user’s
role.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6340"><span
style=''>CFY-6340</span></a> - You can work with the bootstrap
admin role, even when LDAP is configured.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6206"><span
style=''>CFY-6206</span></a><span style='font-size:9.5pt;
line-height:115%;color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> -<span
style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span></span>Support has been added to enable
deletion of tenants/groups/users.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6096"><span
style=''>CFY-6096</span></a><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'> 
</span>- Support has been added for private resources and resource permissions.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6139"><span
style=''>CFY-6193</span></a><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'> 
</span>- `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>tenant</span>`
and `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>permission</span>`
responses have been added to the CLI.</p>

<h2 style='line-height:137%'><a name="_5t6hzx57jpj7"></a>API</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l13 level1 lfo6'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6369"><span
style=''>CFY-6369</span></a> - An API call has been created that
validates the permission of a user to access a file server resource.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6139"><span
style=''>CFY-6193</span></a><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'> 
</span>- `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>tenant</span>`
and `<span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>permission</span>`
responses have been added to the API.</p>
<a id="addressed"></a>
<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6162"><span
style=''>CFY-6162</span></a><span style='font-size:9.5pt;
line-height:137%;color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'><span
style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span>- </span><span style='
line-height:137%'>To optimize performance, as a response from the REST API, the
maximum value that can be set for a pages is 1000 records.</span></p>

<h1 style='margin-top:14.0pt'><a name="_dqmqg39k4ata"></a>Issues Addressed</h1>

<p class=MsoTitle style='margin-bottom:0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'><a
name="_88sg4033b6fr"></a><span style='font-size:11.0pt;line-height:115%'>The
following known issues have been addressed in this release:<o:p></o:p></span></p>

<h2><a name="_hf0l0dcialvc"></a>Bootstrapping/Installation</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l19 level1 lfo18'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6052"><span
style=''>CFY-6052</span></a> - Bootstrap no longer fails if a
Cloudify Manager VM image doesn't contain <span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>/root/.<span class=SpellE>ssh</span></span>.<span
style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l19 level1 lfo18'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6510"><span
style=''>CFY-6510</span></a> -<a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6504"><span
style=''>CFY-6504</span></a> - Offline bootstrap no longer fails
due to <span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>dsl_resources</span></span> input.<b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:
normal'><o:p></o:p></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l19 level1 lfo18'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5745"><span
style=''>CFY-5745</span></a> - If you attempt to bootstrap without
<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>auth</span></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> <span class=SpellE>env</span></span>
variables, an error message is displayed.</p>

<h2><a name="_d0omob2h5ptp"></a>CLI</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;page-break-after:avoid;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6003"><span
style=''>CFY-6003</span></a> - The redundant deployment-id
argument has been deleted from `<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
deployments create</span>`.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6005"><span
style=''>CFY-6005</span></a> - Error messages that are displayed
when executing `<span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span style='font-family:
"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> teardown -f
--ignore-deployments</span>` have been made clearer.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6006"><span
style=''>CFY-6006</span></a> - Windows CLI package upload
blueprint from secured URL no longer fails on certificate verification.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5995"><span
style=''>CFY-5995</span></a><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5995"><span
style='color:windowtext;text-decoration:none;text-underline:none'> </span></a>-
When using <span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>get_attribute</span></span> in secure
mode, <span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>dispatch
<span class=SpellE>evaluate_functions</span></span> no longer attempts to use <span
class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>ctx</span></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> </span>before it is set. </p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><span
style='mso-spacerun:yes'> </span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6510"><span
style=''>CFY-6510</span></a> - <span style='
line-height:137%'>The message displayed in the event of a bug in which the
manager does not return an argument that the CLI expected to get in the list
response has been clarified.</span><b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><o:p></o:p></b></p>

<h2><a name="_bbbzw2xeppxw"></a>Orchestration</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333'><span style='mso-list:
Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp;
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6496"><span
style=''>CFY-6496</span></a> - Issues with security groups in
Cloudify Manager blueprints have been addressed.<span style='
line-height:137%;color:#333333'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6473"><span
style=''>CFY-6473</span></a> - An infinite loop no longer occurs
in dispatch if the workflow executor reaches an invalid state.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-4233"><span
style=''>CFY-4233</span></a> - <span style='
line-height:137%;color:#333333'>Unicode characters are not supported in
blueprints. Strings in blueprints are now checked to ensure there are no
unicode characters.</span><span style='color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6156"><span
style=''>CFY-6156</span></a><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'> 
</span>- You can now successfully use <span class=SpellE><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>cfy</span></span><span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>
blueprints upload</span> from GitHub.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-XXXX"><span
style=''>CFY-5699</span></a> - The b<span style='color:#333333;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'>lueprint parsing error in which a
circular </span><span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New";color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>get_property</span></span><span style='color:#333333;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'> was detected even though it didn’t exist
has been addressed</span>.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5971"><span
style='line-height:137%;;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>CFY-5971</span></a> - Backwards compatibility for
installing agents on Windows hosts for pre-3.3.0 blueprints is now available.<b
style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'><span style='line-height:
137%;color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></b></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5631"><span
style=''>CFY-5631</span></a><u><span>, </span></u><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5561"><span
style=''>CFY-556</span></a><u><span>1 </span></u>-
Dereferencing of anchors in blueprints has been fixed. The behavior was
inconsistent, and different values were set each time. </p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6476"><span
style=''>CFY-6476</span></a> - The issue related to source plugin
TAR creation when uploading a blueprint has been addressed.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6388"><span
style=''>CFY-6388</span></a> - The situation in which `<span
class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>logstash</span></span>` failed to fetch logs and events that
were written after exchanges from logs and events were deleted has been
addressed.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6333"><span
style=''>CFY-6333</span></a> - The situation in which the `<span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>create
snapshot</span>` command failed when the snapshot file was too big has been
addressed.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6437"><span
style=''>CFY-6437</span></a>, <a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6341"><span
style=''>CFY-6341</span></a>, <a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6128"><span
style=''>CFY-6128</span></a> - The issue related to creating and
restoring snapshots has been addressed.<span style='
line-height:137%;color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5493"><span
style=''>CFY-5493</span></a><span style='mso-spacerun:yes'> 
</span>- The scale workflow for scaling a node template that is part of a group
and is contained in another node not part of that group has been fixed.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-XXXX"><span
style=''>CFY-5589</span></a> - <span style='color:#333333;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'>Workflow parameters types are validated
before attempts to execute the workflow</span>.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-XXXX"><span
style=''>CFY-5711</span></a> - <span style='color:#333333'>The
validation of workflow parameters now operates as expected.</span></p>

<h2 style='line-height:137%'><a name="_uzdzq2g9qqmp"></a>API</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:142%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5371"><span
style=''>CFY-5371</span></a> - The issue in which <span
style='line-height:142%;background:white;mso-highlight:white'>filtering
was not supported in REST service snapshots endpoints, has been addressed.<span
style='color:#333333'><o:p></o:p></span></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l10 level1 lfo14'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5838"><span
style=''>CFY-5838</span></a> - The issue in which <span
class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>workflow_test</span></span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'> decorator</span> (for <span
class=SpellE>uni</span>-tests) was checking for the wrong directory path has
been addressed.</p>

<h2 style='line-height:137%'><a name="_2z4eufgmriwl"></a>General</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l11 level1 lfo9'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6498"><span
style=''>CFY-6498</span></a> - It is now possible to specify a
file path for <span class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>manager_resources_package</span></span>.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:137%;mso-list:l11 level1 lfo9'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6197"><span
style=';background:white;mso-highlight:white'>CFY-6196</span></a><span
style='color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> - The error message
returned when creating a user with an existing name has been clarified.<o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l11 level1 lfo9'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-3902"><span
style=''>CFY-3902</span></a><span style='font-size:9.5pt;
line-height:115%;color:#222222;background:white;mso-highlight:white'> </span>-
The Diamond agent restarts when Cloudify Manager is restarted.<span
style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l11 level1 lfo9'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5877"><span
style=''>CFY-5877</span></a> - <span style='color:#333333;
background:white;mso-highlight:white'><span
style='mso-spacerun:yes'> </span>The error message</span> when the agent
installer fails to connect to VM <span style='color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>has been clarified.</span><span style='
line-height:115%;color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l11 level1 lfo9'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='line-height:142%;color:#333333;background:white;
mso-highlight:white'>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>&nbsp; </span></span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5464"><span
style=''>CFY-5464</span></a> - Descending sort by time is
supported in sorting search results.<span style='line-height:
142%;color:#333333;background:white;mso-highlight:white'><o:p></o:p></span></p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l11 level1 lfo9'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5782"><span
style=''>CFY-5782</span></a> - Fix deployment update broken for
deployments migrated from Cloudify 3.2.1</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l11 level1 lfo9'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5453"><span
style=''>CFY-5453</span></a> - The issue in which a deployment's <span
class=SpellE><span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>updated_at</span></span> field was not updated during deployment
update has been addressed.</p>
<a id="known"></a>
<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l11 level1 lfo9'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-5698"><span
style=''>CFY-5698</span></a> - The issue in which a management
worker sporadically doesn't restart after reboot has been addressed.</p>

<h1 style='margin-top:14.0pt;mso-pagination:widow-orphan'><a
name="_s16jzw8oel55"></a><a name="_m0ifjg9o75ts"></a>Known Issues</h1>

<p class=MsoNormal style='page-break-after:avoid'>The following issues are
known to exist in this release:</p>

<h2><a name="_bfcshd8kny6d"></a>Cloudify Manager</h2>
<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;line-height:142%;mso-list:l11 level1 lfo9'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6919"><span
style=''>CFY-6919</span></a> - When you upgrade Cloudify Manager from version 3.4.x to version 4.0.x, deployments that included plugins which were part of version 3.4.x no longer work.</p>

<h3><a name="_6g28m5fbmmk7"></a>Multi-Tenancy</h3>

<h4><a name="_3ys3x4plgjkz"></a>Limitations</h4>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;page-break-after:avoid;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Roles can only be assigned to
individual users, not user groups.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Resource sharing between tenants
is not available.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>You can only delete tenants or
user groups if they are empty, and users if they are unassigned.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>LDAP is not supported for nested
groups.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>You cannot customize password
strength rules.</p>

<h4><a name="_jqxysmitjn81"></a>Issues</h4>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;text-indent:-.25in;
mso-list:l15 level1 lfo10'><![if !supportLists]>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'> </span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6660"><span
style=''>CFY-6660</span></a><span
style=''> - </span>REST calls do not support <span
style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>private
resource</span> and <span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:
"Courier New"'>resource creator</span> fields. </p>

<h2><a name="_r4huszn5w372"></a>Web User Interface</h2>

<h4><a name="_xzyuz3q4khis"></a>Limitations</h4>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;page-break-after:avoid;mso-list:l4 level1 lfo5'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>The interface only supports
uploads of public resources.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l4 level1 lfo5'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>The <span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>created-by</span> field is not
displayed.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpMiddle style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l4 level1 lfo5'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>High availability is not supported
in the user interface.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l4 level1 lfo5'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span>Multiple Cloudify Managers are not
supported in the user interface.</p>

<h4><a name="_3z227y9p0oea"></a>Issues</h4>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;text-indent:-.25in;
mso-list:l15 level1 lfo10'><![if !supportLists]>&#9679;<span
style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'> </span></span><![endif]><span
dir=LTR></span><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6673"><span
style=''>CFY-6673</span></a> - Deletion of plugins is implemented
using the <span style='font-family:"Courier New";mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>--force</span>
flag. A plugin will be deleted even if it is in use.</p>

<h2><a name="_vrhmcibqt162"></a>CLI</h2>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpFirst style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6616"><span
style=''>CFY-6616</span></a> - If you delete a Cloudify Manager
and you are using the CLI as a client, you must delete the CLI profile of the
manager.</p>

<p class=MsoNormalCxSpLast style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;
text-indent:-.25in;mso-list:l12 level1 lfo20'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6646"><span
style=''>CFY-6646 </span></a>- In the event that the private key
used for installing and uninstalling an agent is passed in a blueprint as a
file path on Cloudify Manager, it is not replicated in a cluster. Therefore,
using that key to install from one Cloudify Manager and uninstall from another
(after failover) will fail.<br>
<b style='mso-bidi-font-weight:normal'>Workaround:</b><br>
<span style='line-height:115%;color:#333333'>Copy the private
key to the Cloudify Manager that is becoming activate.</span></p>

<h2><a name="_mvsr9ft3iuny"></a>REST API</h2>

<p class=MsoNormal style='margin-left:.5in;mso-add-space:auto;text-indent:-.25in;
line-height:137%;mso-list:l2 level1 lfo15'><![if !supportLists]><span
style='mso-list:Ignore'>&#9679;<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span><![endif]><span dir=LTR></span><a
href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6660"><span
style=''>CFY-6660</span></a> - If you make a REST API call using
the<span style='mso-spacerun:yes'>  </span><span style='font-family:"Courier New";
mso-fareast-font-family:"Courier New"'>_include=<span class=SpellE>created_by</span></span>
argument, you will receive a corrupted response.</p>

</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</div>


</section>
{% include leadlanderform.html %}

</notextile>
