---
layout: bt_default
title: Cloudify 4.1.0 Release Notes
cat: User Guide
---
<notextile>
<section id="inner-headline">
	<div class="container">
		<div class="row">
			<div class="span12">
				<ul class="breadcrumb">
					<li><a href="/"><i class="icon-home"></i></a><i class="icon-angle-right"></i></li>
					<li>Download<i class="icon-angle-right"></i></li>
					<li>Release Notes<i class="icon-angle-right"></i></li>
					<li class="active">4.1</li>
				</ul>
				<br/>
				<h1><i class="icon icon-book"></i>&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Cloudify 4.1 Release Notes</strong></h1>	
			</div>
		</div>			
	</div>
</section>


	<section id="content">
	<div class="container">
				<div class="row">
					<div class="span12">
						<div class="wrapper">
							<div class="testimonial">
									
<h2><strong><span style="font-size: 28px">Cloudify 4.1 (14-JUL-2017)</span></strong></h2>
<div class="btn btn-info btn-sm aligncenter"><a href="/downloads/releasenotes/4.1.0_Release_Notes.pdf" download><font color="white">Download Release Notes in PDF</font></a>
                        </div>
<h2>What&rsquo;s New?</h2>
<h3>Cloudify Manager </h3>
<ul>
<li>You can now explicitly specify whether plugins are to be installed from source during deployment creation.</li>
<li>You can use the <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.1.0/icli/teardown/">teardown</a> command in the command line interface to remove Cloudify Manager and all its resources from a VM.</li>
<li>Cloudify Manager no longer requires a root user for its operation.</li>
<li>You can <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.1.0/manager/private-resources/">specify resources as private</a> to increase isolation within tenants.</li>
<li>To enhance multi tenancy isolation and boundaries, agents belonging to one tenant cannot trigger operations on another tenant. Achieved through RabbitMQ isolation between tenants.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Web User Interface</h3>
<ul>
<li>You can now create your own custom widgets to assist you in displaying your data in a custom manner, or can integrate the Cloudify UI with other components in your architecture.</li>
</ul>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Widgets can be written using two different methods.</p>
<ul>
<ul>
<li>Using the React Utility is the recommended method, and requires a build operation to be executed. You can build the widget.js file yourself, or use the Cloudify build system.</li>
<li>Pure Vanilla JavaScript which enables attachment of an HTML template file. The callbacks for this method are described later in this topic.</li>
</ul>
<li>A custom widget environment is now available on which you can develop and test your widgets.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Cloudify Composer</h2>
<ul>
<li>Cloudify Composer is now integrated into Cloudify Manager, eliminating the need for separate installation and making the process of uploading composed blueprints to the Manager easy and intuitive.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Upgrading to Cloudify 4.1</h2>
<p> To upgrade from Cloudify 4.0.x to Cloudify 4.1, you must create a snapshot of your 4.0.x machine, and upload it to a tenant on Cloudify 4.1.0. Before you start, it is important that you <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.1.0/installation/upgrade_4-0-0/">review the upgrade options</a>. Note also that snapshots can only be restored to clusters that have only a single node.<br /> </p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>:<br /> Before beginning the upgrade process, please review the Known Issues section at the end of these release notes.</p>
<ul>
<li>Restoration using the CLI is described <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/cli/snapshots/">here</a>.</li>
<li>Restoration from the UI is described <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/manager_webui/plugins-snapshots-page/">here</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Migration Procedure</strong></p>
<p>If you are migrating <strong>from Cloudify 3.4.x to Cloudify 4.1</strong>, follow this procedure to perform the migration.</p>
<p><strong>PREREQUISITE</strong></p>
<p>Before taking the snapshot, verify that there are not any instances of node ID or deployment ID that include an underscore. For example, change node_ID to node-ID.</p>
<ol>
<li>Take a snapshot of Cloudify 3.4.x according to the <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/3.4.2/manager/snapshots/">installation instructions</a> in the Cloudify 3.4.x documentation.</li>
<li>Install Cloudify 4.1.0 according to the <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.1.0/installation/installation-overview/">installation instructions</a> in the Cloudify 4.1.0 documentation.</li>
<li>On the newly installed manager, upload and restore the 3.4.x snapshot. <br /> You can restore a snapshot to a Manager that does not have any data on it (clean), or to one with existing content.<br /> <strong>Note: </strong>The snapshot is uploaded to the tenant on which you performed the upload operation.</li>
</ol>
<p>Restore the uploaded snapshot into a specific tenant by specifying a new (unique) tenant name. The tenant is created as part of the restore process, and is populated with the snapshot content.</p>
<ol>
<ul>
<li>Restoration using the CLI is described <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/cli/snapshots/">here</a>.</li>
<li>Restoration from the UI is described <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.0.0/manager_webui/plugins-snapshots-page/">here</a>.</li>
</ul>
</ol>
<h2>New Features</h2>
<p>The following new features are available in this release:</p>
<h3>Cloudify Manager</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6876">CFY-6876</a> - To enhance multi tenancy isolation and boundaries, agents belonging to one tenant cannot trigger operations on another tenant.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6900">CFY-6900</a> - Snapshots from versions 3.4 and later can now be restored to newer versions of Cloudify.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6474">CFY-6474</a> - You can now explicitly specify whether plugins should be installed from source on deployment creation.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6870">CFY-6870</a> - When a snapshot that includes live agents is restored, the certificates are replaced, to enable communication with pre-existing agents.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6899">CFY-6899</a> - When you restore a snapshot with a certificate, the VM is automatically rebooted, unless the no_reboot flag was supplied.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-7017">CFY-7017</a> - Validation of the minimal available memory can now be configured or disabled.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Cloudify Manager User Interface</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6931">CFY-6931</a> - Changes made using the Manager UI that are related to custom widgets and images are saved in snapshots, and therefore reflected in an upgraded Manager.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6908">CFY-6908</a> &ndash; User interface files, such as widgets and images are saved in HA replication and snapshots.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-32">STAGE-32</a> &ndash; A custom widget environment is now available.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-126">STAGE-126</a> - You can now select the main blueprint file from a list during the upload process.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Security</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/STAGE-237">STAGE-237</a> &ndash; Blueprints and deployments can be defined as private so they are only available to the user who created the resource.</li>
<li>Cloudify Manager no longer requires a root user for its operation.</li>
<li>Resources can be defined as private for further isolation within tenants.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6876">CFY-6876</a> - To enhance multi tenancy isolation and boundaries, agents belonging to one tenant cannot trigger operations on another tenant. Achieved through RabbitMQ isolation between tenants.</li>
</ul>
<h3>CLI</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6722">CFY-6722</a> - Multiple local profiles are supported by default.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Cloudify Composer</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-731">COMPOSER-731 </a>- Cloudify Composer is now integrated into the Cloudify Manager, eliminating the need for separate installation and making the process of uploading composed blueprints to the Manager easy and intuitive.</li>
</ul>
<h3>API</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6474">CFY-6474</a> - You can now explicitly specify whether plugins should be installed from source on deployment creation. </li>
</ul>
<h2>Issues Addressed</h2>
<p>The following known issues have been addressed in this release:</p>
<h3>Bootstrapping/Installation</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6948">CFY-6948</a> - When enabling SSL on bootstrap, CLOUDIFY_SSL_TRUST_ALL is no longer ignored for CLI commands. </li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6901">CFY-6901</a>, <a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6894">CFY-6894</a>, <a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6934">CFY-6934</a> - The issue in which you could not bootstrap a second Manager on a cluster, or add an existing second Manager to a cluster, has been addressed.</li>
</ul>
<h3>CLI</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6934">CFY-6934</a> - `cfy profiles use` breaks without --rest-port.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6930">CFY-6930</a> &ndash; The issue in which you could not rejoin a cluster using the CLI has been addressed.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Orchestration</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6869">CFY-6869</a> - Migration file created with drop_index</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6874">CFY-6874</a> - The issue in which the get_property intrinsic function did not look inside data types when address is of a declared type, has been addressed.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6933">CFY-6933</a> - The issue in which a small number (~30) of deployments could not be created simultaneously has been addressed.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Cloudify Composer</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-506">COMPOSER-506</a> - The issue in which changes to a custom node type were not reflected in an already existing instance of that type is now resolved.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-598">COMPOSER-598</a> - The issue in which, when renaming floating IP/security group names, the new node names were not updated in attached compute network section, is now resolved.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-602">COMPOSER-602</a> - An autosave indicator has been added.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-626">COMPOSER-626</a> - Container type instances are now able to reside inside a compute node type.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-659">COMPOSER-659</a> - Composer now prevents the addition of a group as a member of itself.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-706">COMPOSER-706</a> - The issue in which changes to derived properties of custom types were not being saved is now resolved.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-710">COMPOSER-710</a> - The issue in which changes to a custom node's operations that are derived from a parent node was not saved is now resolved.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-747">COMPOSER-747</a> - The issue in which an input or a custom relationship&rsquo;s property that was defined with a default Boolean value of &ldquo;false&rdquo; was saved with a &ldquo;true&rdquo; value, is now resolved.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/COMPOSER-709">COMPOSER-709</a> - Custom nodes that derive from a node type defined in an imported file are now deleted when that import is removed from the blueprint.</li>
</ul>
<h3>API</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6898">CFY-6898</a> - The get version API call now returns the correct edition value.</li>
</ul>
<h3>General</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6864">CFY-6864</a> - The issue in which a cluster comprising a single node could not be restored has been resolved.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6867">CFY-6867</a> - The issue in which the cluster start command did not work has been resolved.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6914">CFY-6914</a> - The create and restore snapshot commands are now working correctly.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6913">CFY-6913</a> - The issue in which a snapshot of a Cloudify 3.4 instance that was restored to Cloudify 4.0.1 reported success but was not successfully restored has been addressed.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6652">CFY-6652</a> - The timestamp in logs has been changed system time.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6962">CFY-6962</a> - The issue in which a Diamond plugin did not use the correct configuration following a restart has been addressed.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6954">CFY-6954</a> - The issue in which when upgrading an agent, the Diamond plugin service file was not updated to point to the new agent has been addressed.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6942">CFY-6942</a> - When SSL is enabled on the Manager, the issue in which, in some circumstances, traffic was not redirected internally from port 80 to 443 has been addressed.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6932">CFY-6932</a> - Handle restore snap with plugins to 4.0.1 (script)</li>
</ul>
<h2>Known Issues</h2>
<p>The following issues are known to exist in this release:</p>
<h3>Upgrading Cloudify Manager</h3>
<ul>
<li>SSH key files on tenants other than the default tenant are not included in the snapshot creation and restoration process. It is recommended that you <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org/4.1.0/blueprints/spec-secretstore/">use secrets</a> to store this data, ensuring a proper upgrade.<br /> <strong>Workaround</strong>: When you are creating your snapshot of Cloudify Manager 4.x, you can pass the &ndash;exclude-credentials flag. This prevents the store/retrieve process from being touched. You can then recreate the keys from the original Cloudify Manager in the same locations on the new Cloudify Manager.</li>
<li>An agent upgrade is not automatically performed on tenants, other than the default tenant.<br /> <strong>Workaround</strong>: To upgrade the agent on a tenant other than the default, run <br /> cfy agents install -t TENANT_NAME</li>
<li>Before taking a snapshot of a Cloudify Manager version 4.0.x, it is important that you run the process described in the documentation including tearing down existing Manager. During the process, essential patches are applied.</li>
</ul>
<h3>High Availability</h3>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-7039">CFY-7039</a> &ndash; If, when you start a cluster user the floating IP of a Manager(default), the required ports are not open, an error message is not displayed. It will appear that the cluster has started correctly.<br /> <strong>Workaround</strong>: After you have started a cluster, view the Nodes list and verify that the node is online and does not have a FAILED DB status.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-7030">CFY-7030</a> &ndash; If you start a cluster with a single Manager instance, and that Manager becomes unavailable, when you attempt to connect a new (second) Manager to the cluster, an error message is returned that there is no active node in the cluster.<br /> <strong>Workaround</strong>: Address the issues that made the Manager unavailable. You can now connect to the original second Manager.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6906">CFY-6906</a> &ndash; This issue relates to the situation in which you have created a cluster from an image and you are joining a second Manager, which was bootstrapped to the cluster. When you join the second Manager to the cluster and run cfy --version, the version list <em>incorrectly</em> shows that you are connect to the bootstrapped (passive) Manager. If you run cfy cluster node list, the list <em>correctly</em> shows the active Manager as being active and that you are connected to it.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6868">CFY-6868</a> &ndash; This issue occurs when upgrading from an earlier version to a later version. If you bootstrap a Manager and start a cluster, then tear down the Manager, and bootstrap a new Manager, when you attempt to start a cluster on the new Manager, an error message is returned.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6859">CFY-6859</a> &ndash; If you have a cluster of two Cloudify Manager instances and you remove the active Manager, when you join a third Manager to the cluster (of which the second instance is now the active Manager), an internal server error is returned.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6813">CFY-6813</a> &ndash; This issue relates to the situation in which you have created a cluster and have then torn down that active Manager. If you use the CLI to switch back to a profile that includes the recently torn down Manager, you erroneously receive a message that the Manager cannot be used because there is no active node in the cluster.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6822">CFY-6822</a> &ndash; This issue relates to the situation in which you have two Managers in a cluster. If you remove the passive Manager from the cluster, and then remove the active Manager, you can still upload a blueprint and create resources on what was the active Manager, even though it is now outside of the cluster. If you attempt to start a new cluster with this Manager, or to join it to another cluster, an error message is returned informing you that the Manager is already part of a cluster, even though the cluster node list is empty.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-7019">CFY-7019</a> &ndash; When you are uploading a plugin to a Manager in a cluster, instead of the plugin upload confirmation message, you erroneously get a message that there was a timeout in the process.</li>
<li><a href="https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/browse/CFY-6821">CFY-6821</a> &ndash; You can join a Manager that already has resources (users, tenants, or plugins) on it to a cluster and set it as the active Manager, although a Manager should be clean before it can be joined to a cluster.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Cloudify Composer</h3>
<ul>
<li>In the blueprints catalog on the <strong>Imports</strong> tab, the default types.yaml file is located in the <span style="font-family: courier new">http://www.getcloudify.org/spec/cloudify/4.1m2/types.yaml</span> directory. There are no changes to the functionality of the YAML file.</li>
<li>In the out-of-the-box catalog, the OpenStack plugin is not included. You can add it by clicking <strong>Import</strong> and entering the link to the appropriate plugin. To identify the correct link, open the <a href="http://cloudify.co/downloads/get_cloudify.html">Cloudify downloads page</a>.</li>
<li>You cannot add an output using Cloudify Composer. Open the blueprint in a text editor and add the output directly in the blueprint.</li>
</ul>

</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>
</div>


</section>
{% include leadlanderform.html %}

</notextile>
