---
layout: bt_wiki
title: SLA Requirements
category: Developing Recipes
publish: true
abstract: Explains how to specify SLA elements per application service, e.g. initial number of instances
pageord: 12
---

Cloudify service recipes can describe the initial SLA and resource requirements for each service.

h2. Specifying Service SLA

You can describe the initial service SLA for each service as the minimum number of service instances Cloudify must start and maintain for the service. Cloudify does not consider the installation of the service successful, unless the specified number of service instances have started and been verified (using the startup validation plugin declared in the service descriptor file).

If Cloudify detects that a service's minimum number of service instances are not running, Cloudify will attempt to heal by reinstalling and starting the service instance again. If Cloudify detects that a service instance's VM has stopped responding, Cloudify provisions a new VM for the service instance.

The following example shows how to describe the SLA using the @numInstances@ attribute.
<script src="https://gist.github.com/1704790.js?file=gistfile1.groovy"></script>

h2. Specifying Resource Requirements

Cloudify is designed to decouple applications from their host cloud, thereby making cloud portability simple. Cloudify provides this mechanism by describing an application's resource requiremnts as a Cloudify template, rather than as a specific cloud image ID or cloud hardware ID.

Cloudify templates are sections of configuration in the Cloud Driver configuration file that describe specific OS images and hardware profiles (as well as firewall definitions and security considerations) using specific cloud terminology. The Cloudify distribution file contains Cloud Drivers with a variety of predefined templates that can be added to, or modified, as required.

To use a Cloud Driver template, simply add it to the @compute@ section located in the @General@ section of the service descriptor file. The following example shows a service using the @BIG_LINUX_32@ template.
<script src="https://gist.github.com/1704794.js?file=gistfile1.groovy"></script>