---
layout: bt_wiki
title: The Cloud Driver
category: Developing Cloud Drivers
publish: true
abstract: An overview of the cloud driver interface and its key functions
pageord: 100
---

The Cloudify cloud driver is Cloudify's abstraction layer for the underlying cloud environment. It is responsible for interfacing with the cloud infrastructure to provide the on-demand compute resources that Cloudify requires for running applications.

h2. How Compute Resources are Provisioned

Cloudify uses *agentless-installation* to install Cloudify, meaning that it does not require any Cloudify software (agent) to be preinstalled on newly allocated machines before starting the installation process. The Cloudify controller simply connects to to newly allocated machines over SSH, installs the required Cloudify components, and connects it to the Cloudify cluster. 

As a result, other than meeting the "minimum requirements for images":../setup/post_installation_configuration.html#images, special machine images are not required. Any *nix or Windows image can be used, whether virtual or physical. Additionally, provisioning does not necessarily have to use a real "cloud", you can use an arbitrary set of non-virtualized hosts to create "BYON":../setup/configuring_byon.html or "local cloud":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_localcloud.html environments.

h2. When the Compute Cloud Driver Is Used

The compute cloud driver is loaded and used by the following Cloudify components:
* The Cloudify shell loads an instance of the cloud driver when provisioning or unprovisioning machines when the following commands are run, and is then discarded:
** *@bootstrap-cloud@*, *@teardown-cloud@* (management machines)
** *@install-application@*, *@uninstall-application@* (application machines)
* The Cloudify Orchestrator (ESM) creates one instance of the cloud driver for each deployed service. Each instance is responsible for scaling out/in the specified service. At all times, there can only be one ESM in a cluster, running zero or more instances of the cloud driver.

h4(warn). Modifying the cloud driver has an effect *only* before the "bootstrapping":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_process.html

h2. How It Works

The cloud driver is a Java class that uses a configuration file. When defining a cloud's configuration file, you must define the class name in the cloud driver configuration file (@<cloudifyRoot>/clouds/<cloudName>/<cloudName>-cloud.groovy@). Cloudify will instantiate this class (using the @no-arg@ constructor) as required, and delegate scale out/in requests to it.

When scaling-out, the driver is responsible for allocating the machine, verifying that SSH is enabled on it, and returning the machine details to Cloudify. The  returned details include the machine's Host/IP address and the login credentials required to access the machine. When scaling-in, the driver is responsible for shutting down the machine and releasing it to the pool of available machines. In virtualized environments (including most IaaS clouds), this usually means shutting down the virtual machine itself. In contrast, in physical environments, this means either shutting down the machine itself, or simplay stopping the Cloudify agent running on the machine.

h2. Dealing with Provisioning Errors

Cloud providers and APIs are not perfect. In large-scale distributed environments, errors can and do occur. It is important to remember that the cloud driver infrastructure is NOT "transactional". It is the cloud driver implementation's responsibility to properly handle any errors from cloud environment. Most importantly, it is the cloud driver's responsibility to properly release resources if an error has occurred while provisioning a machine.
For instance, if a cloud driver requests a machine from the cloud and then waits for the machine to become available, the machine may take too long to start, exceeding the required timeout. In this case, it is the responsibility of the cloud driver to shut down the machine before throwing a @TimeoutException@ to the cloud driver infrastructure.

<h4 class="warn">If a @TimeouotException@ occurs, Cloudify will re-issue the request for the new machine.</h4>

h2. The Compute Cloud Driver API

The compute cloud driver extends "(newwindow)__org.cloudifysource.esc.driver.provisioning.BaseComputeDriver__":https://github.com/CloudifySource/cloudify/blob/master/esc/src/main/java/org/cloudifysource/esc/driver/provisioning/BaseProvisioningDriver.java
https://github.com/CloudifySource/cloudify/blob/master/esc/src/main/java/org/cloudifysource/esc/driver/provisioning/jclouds/DefaultProvisioningDriver.java
https://github.com/CloudifySource/cloudify/blob/master/esc/src/main/java/org/cloudifysource/esc/driver/provisioning/openstack/OpenStackCloudifyDriver.java


h2. The Compute Cloud Driver Configuration File

The implementing class of the cloud driver, along with any required cloud configuration information, is specified in a Groovy DSL based configuration file. This information is used to populate the cloud configuration object whose type is __org.cloudifysource.dsl.cloud.Cloud__. This object is passed to the cloud driver instance in the @setConfig()@ call. 


h2. See Also

* "Developing Custom Cloud Drivers":../clouddrivers/developing_custom_clouddriver.html
* "Advanced Cloud Driver Usage":../bootstrapping/advanced_cloud_driver_usage.html