---
layout: default
title: Release Notes - Cloudify 2.6
category: Release Notes
publish: true
abstract: A list of features, improvements, fixed issues, and known issues in Cloudify
pageord: 1
---

<span id="#top" />

h1. Overview

h4. Below is a list of new features, improvements, fixed issues, and known issues in Cloudify.
We track all the issues in our public "JIRA":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net.

<hr/>

"Cloudify 2.6 M4":#v26m4  - published on Jun 12, 2013
This version contains the following key improvements and cool features:
*  "(newwindow)Rest API":../restapi/restdoclet.html - Cloudify now has an enhanced Rest API.
*  "IP addresses filters":../clouddrivers/cloud_driver#ipfilter - Users are now able to configure Private and Public IP Addresses filters.
*  "Bootstrapping Validations":../bootstrapping/bootstrapping_validations - Bootstrapping validations have been added to help avoid a bootstrap failure.
*  "Recipe Repository Enhancement":../setup/recipes_tab - Users can now track installations progress from the Web UI.
<hr/>

h1(#v26m4). Cloudify 2.6 M4 - published on Jun 12, 2013

|"(newwindow)New Features and Improvements":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=12182 |"(newwindow)Fixed Issues":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=12180 |"(newwindow)Known Issues":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=12181 |


<br/>
"Back to top":#top

<hr/>

h1(#v26m3). Cloudify 2.6 M3 - published on May 21, 2013

|"(newwindow)New Features and Improvements":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=12082 |"(newwindow)Fixed Issues":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=12080 |"(newwindow)Known Issues":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=12081 |


<br/>
"Back to top":#top

<hr/>

h1(#v26m2). Cloudify 2.6 M2 - published on May 07, 2013

|"(newwindow)New Features and Improvements":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=11881 |"(newwindow)Fixed Issues":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=11880 |"(newwindow)Known Issues":https://cloudifysource.atlassian.net/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=11882 |


<br/>
"Back to top":#top

