---
layout: default
title: Deploying an Application on Windows Azure
category: Deploying Services & Applications
publish: true
abstract: Explains how to deploy your applications on to the Windows Azure cloud using Cloudify
pageord: 2
---
p. Installing an Application Windows Azure is done from Cloudify Interactive Shell with a single command

h1. Starting the Interactive Shell

To start the Cloudify Inreractive Shell go to <Cloudify Home>/tools/cli and run cloudify.bat or cloudify.sh, if your running on Linux or Mac OS.

h1. Connect to Cloudify Controller

If you have bootstrapped your deployment before and now you need to reconnect, use the connect command. Otherwise, skip to the next section
On the interactive shell type <pre>connect [your azure deployment URL]/rest</pre>
If you don't remember your deployment URL, you can get it from Azure Console

h1. Deploying your Application

Deploying your application is the process where Cloudify Controller on Azure is instructed to execute the application recipe. The controller uses the Cloudify Driver to make Azure start worker role instances according to the recipe SLAs
Once the roles are active, Cloudify agents are discovered by the cdontroller and the recipe is shipped to them for execution.

The following examples installs the travel application recipe for azure. The azure recipe differs in that it configures a reverse proxy that allows
access to the travel application via port 80 (instead of port 8080)
<script src="https://gist.github.com/1875363.js"> </script>

h1. install-application commandline options

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1760347.js?file=install_app_cmd"></script>

<h4 class="warn">Known Limitation: In case your start script returns, Cloudify will consider your service instance dead and will attempt re-installing it.
To avoid this undesired behavior, please make your start script sleep forever.
We are working on a fix to this limitation.</h4>