---
layout: default
title: Specifiying SLA per Service & Resource Requirements
cat: userguide
sidebar: Specifying Service SLA & Resources
---
p. The recipe allows each service to specify its initial SLA and Resource Requirements

h1. Specifying Service SLA
Eache Service can declare its initial SLA in the service recipe. The SLA is declared as number of minimal instances Cloudify should start and keep.
Cloudify will not declare the installation of this service successful unless the specified number of instances has been validated by the specific Startup Plugin / Probe declared by the Service
In case of an unfunctional instance (discovered using the Stop Detection Plugin / Probe), Cloudify will attempt to reinstall and start the instance. In case of a crushed VM, Cloudify will instruct the Cloud API to provision a new VM and will install
the service on the new provisioned VM.

The following snippet shows how to decalre the SLA, using the numInstances attribute
<pre>
service {
    name "jboss-service"
    icon "jboss.jpg"
    type "APP_SERVER"
    numInstances 2

    //recipe body here
}
</pre>

p.
h1. Specifying Resource Requirements
Cloudify is designed to decouple applications from Cloud so Cloud Portability is simple and there is no lock-in risk. In order to do so, the application service recipe declares the resource requiremnts
refering to a Cloudify template, rather than to specific cloud image ID or to specific cloud hardware ID.
Cloudify Tempaltes are blocks of configuration in the Cloud Driver configuration file, that specify specific OS Images and hardware profiles as well as firewall definitions and security considerations, in specific cloud dialect.
Cloudify Cloud Driver comes with a variety of predefined templates but the Cloudify administrator can add as many templates as needed.

The Recipe developer needs to add the compute block to the service recipe in order to reference a template

<pre>
service {
    name "jboss-service"
    icon "jboss.jpg"
    type "APP_SERVER"
    numInstances 2
    compute{
        template 	"BIG_LINUX_32"
    }
  
    //recipe body here
</pre>

