---
layout: bt_about
title: Cloudify Roadmap - Features & Bug Fixes
category: Roadmap
---


<h1>Cloudify Roadmap</h1>

<p>Our up-to-date features can be found in the <a href="http://docs.getcloudify.org" target="_blank">docs</a></p>
<p>Below you will find our roadmap for new features and improvements to Cloudify, including notes on those currently being worked on.</p>

<div class="bs-callout bs-callout-warning"><strong>Note</strong><br>
    Cloudify aims for a minor release every 4-6 months with new features, bug fixes, security enhancements, and more. A service release with bug and security fixes is also intended for delivery every 1-2 months. The current release of Cloudify is {{ site.cfy_current_release }}, and the next release, Cloudify {{ site.cfy_next_release }}, is expected in Q4 2017. Items that are marked as <strong>In Progress</strong> below are included in this release. 
</div>

<h2>Cloudify Manager </h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>High Availability:</strong> HA setup will ensure the uptime of Cloudify Manager in production environments. DONE<strong> - 4.0</strong></li>
<li><strong>Multi-tenancy:</strong> The ability to set tenants with a Cloudify Manager and isolate resources among them, such that one tenant does not have visibility of, nor the ability to access, data/resources of another. DONE - 4.0</li>
<li><strong>Private Resources:</strong> The ability to set a resource as public to the whole tenant or private (only admins and owner(s) can access it). <strong>DONE - 4.0.1</strong></li>
<li><strong>Pre-bootstrap Verification</strong>: As part of the bootstrap process, Cloudify automatically verifies as many variables as possible before actually initiating the bootstrap process. Specifically &ndash; IaaS API credentials and quotas, validity of specified parameters such as image ID, etc in order to ensure successful bootstrap of Cloudify Manager. <strong>IN-PROGRESS</strong></li>
<li><strong>Data Store</strong>: key/value store for storing application-sensitive data such as cloud credentials, secrets and configuration parameters, which users can then access via blueprints. <strong>DONE - 4.0</strong></li>
<li><strong>Manager Settings Configuration</strong>: Allows users to easily modify and apply manager configuration elements to Cloudify Manager, during runtime, via dedicated CLI commands and GUI elements.<strong>IN-PROGRESS</strong></li>
<li><strong><strong>Encrypted Communication:</strong> Agents communicate with the manager via an encrypted channel (SSL). <strong>DONE 4.0 </strong></strong></li>
<li><strong>RBAC:</strong> Resource based role based access control, allows defining privacy level for resources (private/public/custom). <strong>IN-PROGRESS</strong></li>
<li><strong>In Place Upgrade: </strong>Enables version upgrades of the Cloudify manager while keeping the manager&rsquo;s state, and ensuring managed deployments keep running <strong>IN-PROGRESS</strong> 4.1</li>
<li><strong>New user roles available in multi-tenant environment</strong>: <strong>IN PROGRESS</strong></li>
<ul>
<li>* Tenant administrator &ndash; can control all administrative operations within a tenant, including user creation</li>
<li>* Viewer &ndash; can only see deployed resources and not perform any operations</li>
</ul>
<li><strong>Shared resources across tenants</strong></li>
</ul>

<h2>Core Orchestration, DSL, and App Modeling</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>OASIS TOSCA Simple Profile YAML 1.0</strong>: Introduce support for modeling applications and VNFs using standard OASIS TOSCA Simple Profile 1.0 YAML DSL. <strong>IN PROGRESS</strong></li>
<li><strong>ARIA Integration</strong>: Utilizing the <a href="http://ariatosca.org/">ARIA TOSCA</a> Orchestration Library for TOSCA Simple Profile 1.0 Support.<strong> IN-PROGRESS</strong></li>
<li><strong>Service Composition</strong>: Consume existing, running deployed services with new application blueprints for service composition and building microservices architecture.</li>
<li><strong>Application Blueprint Versioning</strong>: The ability to upload new versions of application blueprints, and apply them selectively to running deployments.</li>
<li><strong>Resuming Failed Workflows</strong>: Built-in ability for Cloudify Manager to resume from the last successful execution point. This is useful when the workflow fails due to infrastructure allocation error, quotas, etc.</li>
<li><strong>Scheduled Workflow Execution</strong>: The ability to schedule a workflow execution at a future time, such as scaling the number of web server VMs at a certain time of the day.</li>
<li><strong>Improved Multi-cloud Support</strong>: Better support for multi and hybrid cloud environments.</li>
<li><strong>Edge Orchestration: </strong>Support for distributed orchestration at the network edges</li>
</ul>

<h2>Cloudify UI Framework</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Widget-based UI Framework:</strong> Frontend re-architecture with the ability to load dynamic widgets for visualization of Cloudify data and operations, and for integrating with external systems. <strong>DONE 4.0</strong></li>
<li>Custom widget management - <strong>IN PROGRESS 4.1</strong></li>
<li>Custom template creation - <strong>IN-PROGRESS</strong></li>
<li>Multi Managers support </li>
</ul>
<h2>Cloudify Plugins and Integrations</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>GCP Plugin</strong>: Complete integration with GCP <strong>DONE</strong></li>
<li><strong>OpenStack Mitaka </strong>- Add support for Mitaka release of OpenStack <strong>DONE</strong></li>
<li><strong>OpenStack Newton </strong>- Add support for Newton release of OpenStack</li>
<li><strong>vSphere Plugin</strong>: Complete integration with VMware vSphere <strong>DONE</strong></li>
<li><strong>NSX</strong> Plugin: Complete integration with VMware NSX <strong>DONE</strong></li>
<li><strong>Mesos Plugin</strong>: Support for Mesos integration for orchestrating and scheduling cluster deployments.</li>
<li><strong>General Plugin Improvements</strong>: Ability to extend and reuse plugins and workflows more easily.</li>
<li>Azure Plugin <strong>DONE</strong></li>
</ul>
<h2>Cloudify Composer</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>User Experience</strong>: Simplify and improve the day to day user experience of Cloudify Composer. <strong>DONE</strong></li>
<li><strong>Manager Integration</strong>: Ability to upload composed blueprints to Cloudify Manager. <strong>DONE</strong></li>
<li><strong>Imports and Examples Catalog</strong>: Improved experience for importing external blueprints, plugins and stencils (node types) to the Composer: <strong>IN-PROGRESS &ndash; COMPOSER 2.4</strong></li>
<li><strong>Source Tab Editing Ability</strong>: Enables changing the generated code and having it reflected in the topology view.</li>
<li><strong>Upload Blueprint to Github</strong>: Eases the work with Github.</li>
<li><strong>Improved Ease-of-Use</strong>: With functionalities including Undo, Node clone, Multiple selection of nodes and more.</li>
<li><strong>Integrating Installation: </strong>Integration of the composer installation with Cloudify&rsquo;s execution environment (manager) <strong>IN-PROGRESS &ndash; COMPOSER 2.4</strong></li>
</ul>
<br/>

   <hr/>
             <section id="content">
					<div class="container">
                    <div class="row">
                                <div class="span12">
                                    <h2>How to Get  <strong>Support</strong></h4></div>

				<div class="row">
					<div class="span4">
						<div class="box aligncenter">
								<font color="#00B4DA"><i class="icon icon-4x icon-comments-alt"></i></font>

							<div class="text">
								<h3>Mailing Lists</h3>
								</div>
									</div>
								<p>
									Join our <a href="https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-users" target="_blank">cloudify-users</a> or <a href="https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cloudify-developers" target="_blank">cloudify-developers</a> mailing list, and get support from the community.
								</p>


						</div>
							<div class="span4">
						<div class="box aligncenter">
								<font color="#00B4DA"><i class="fa fa-stack-overflow fa-4x"></i></font>

							<div class="text">
								<h3>Stack Overflow</h3>
								</div>
								</div>
								<p>
									 Subscribe to the <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/cloudify" target="_blank">Cloudify tag</a> on Stack Overflow, and feel free to ask your questions amongst cloud pros.
								</p>
															</div>
					<div class="span4">
						<div class="box aligncenter">
								<font color="#00B4DA"><i class="icon icon-4x icon-envelope-alt"></i></font>

							<div class="text">
								<h3>Shoot us an Email</h3>
									</div>
									</div>
								<p>
									 Feel free to reach out by <a href="mailto:hello@getcloudify.org">email</a> with any question you may have - we're always happy to help.
								</p>

							</div>
						</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
</div>
</section>
