---
layout: bt_about
title: Privacy Policy
category: Privacy Policy
---

<p> 
<h1>Privacy Policy</h1> 
<span>
   Thank you for visiting www.cloudifysource.org (together with all content on the site including subdomains and other websites operated by GigaSpaces Technologies Ltd. or its affiliates and subsidiaries d/b/a CloudifySource ("CloudifySource") (the "Site")). Your privacy is important to us. To better protect your privacy, we provide this privacy policy ("Privacy Policy") explaining our online information practices and the choices you can make about the way your information is collected and used by this Site. This Privacy Policy forms part of the Terms of Use, available at www.cloudifysource.org.
</span>   
</p>
 
<p>  
 <h2>Consent and Modification</h2>

By using this Site, you consent to the terms of our Privacy Policy and to CloudifySource&#39;s processing of Personal Information for the purposes set forth herein. If you do not agree to this Privacy Policy, please do not use our Site. We reserve the right, at our discretion, to change this Privacy Policy at any time, which change will be effective 10 days following posting the revised Privacy Policy on the Site. Your continued use of our Site 10 days following such posting indicates your acceptance of these changes.
</p>
<p>  
 <h2>Introduction</h2>

We are committed to respecting your online privacy and recognize your need for appropriate protection and management of any personally identifiable information ("Personal Information") you share with us. 

"Personal Information" means any information that may be used, either alone or in combination with other information, to personally identify an individual, including, but not limited to, a first and last name, personal profile, a home or other physical address, an email address or other contact information. 
</p>
<p>  
 <h2>Account</h2>

Currently, we do not require you to provide Personal Information in order to have access to information available on our Site. However, in order to provide you with certain services given through the Site, you must create an account ("Account").  We offer two ways to create an Account: 

<ul style="list-style-type: lower-roman;">
<li>Online Registration Form:  You can complete and submit an online registration form which we make available on the Site.  You will be asked to provide us with information such as your username, an email address, and a password that you will use for your Account.  </li>
<li>Third Party Account:  You can choose the option to sign in with a third party account as displayed on the login page for the Site such as: Facebook, Twitter, or another designated third party website (each a "Third Party Account").  Doing so will enable you to link your Site Account and your Third Party Account.  If you choose this option, then a Third Party Account pop-up box or window will appear requiring you to authorize the application’s use of your Third Party Account in order to proceed, and which will describe the permissions required and types of information that may be obtained from this authorization, and the types of activities that we may perform in connection with, your Third Party Account.  With some Third Party accounts you may also be asked to choose a Site username or associated email address that you will use in connection with your Account on our Site.  Please note that in order to use this option, you will need to have, and may need to sign-in to, an existing Third Party Account.</li>
</ul>
</p>
<p>  
 <h2>Publicly Available Information</h2>

Public Profile: If you have an Account you may, if you wish, add more information about yourself, such as profile pictures, your name, location and address ("Your Profile"). Your Profile will be publicly available to other Site users, and may also be accessed and used by people off of the Site.

User Submissions.  The Site may permit you and other Site users to post and publish images, pictures, photographs, drawings, illustrations, comments, messages, text, videos, and other content, onto public areas of the Site ("User Submissions").  You acknowledge and agree that these User Submissions will be publicly available to other Site users, and may also be accessed and used by people off of the Site even if such content contains Personal Information. 

Link between User Submissions and Public Profile.  Please note that some or all of your Public Profile may be displayed next to or in connection with your User Submissions.

Your Contact Information.  If you publish your contact information in a User Submission or as part of Your Profile, you may receive unsolicited messages from Site users or the public.  We therefore encourage you to only post information that you are sure you want to be accessible to anyone.

</p>
<p>  
 <h2>The Way We Use Personal Information</h2>

If you submit Personal Information to us through the Site, then we will use your Personal Information to improve our services to you, to contact you and to identify and authenticate your access to the Site’s services that you are authorized to access. 
 
We may transfer your Personal Information within CloudifySource or to CloudifySource&#39;s third-party service providers, but only to provide services on the Site or to you. This information may be transferred to other countries around the world. 

We may provide Personal Information and non-personally-identifiable information to our subsidiaries, affiliated companies, or other businesses or persons for the purpose of processing such information on our behalf. We require that these parties agree to process such information in compliance with our Privacy Policy.


If you have permitted us to do so, we may also use your email address to send updates, a newsletter or news regarding our services. You may choose not to receive future emails from us by selecting an unsubscribe link at the bottom of each email that you receive from us. 

We may disclose your Personal Information or any information you submitted via the Site and its services if we have a good faith belief that disclosure of such information is helpful or reasonably necessary to (i) comply with any applicable law, regulation, legal process or government request, (ii) enforce our Terms of Use including investigations of potential violations thereof, (iii) detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud or security  issues, or (iv) protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of CloudifySource, its users, yourself or the public.

We may use Anonymous Information (as defined below) or disclose it to third party service providers, to improve our services and enhance your experience with the Site and its services. We may also disclose Anonymous Information (with or without compensation) to third parties, including advertisers and partners, for purposes including, but not limited to, targeting advertisements. 
Anonymous Information means information which does not enable identification of an individual user, such as aggregated information about the use of our Site and services.


</p>
<p>  
 <h2>Cookies and Other Tracking Technologies</h2>

Some of our Site pages utilize "cookies" and other tracking technologies. A "cookie" is a small text file that may be used, for example, to collect information about Site activity. Some cookies and other technologies may serve to recall Personal Information previously indicated by a Site user. Most browsers allow you to control cookies, including whether or not to accept them and how to remove them. 

You may set most browsers to notify you if you receive a cookie, or you may choose to block cookies with your browser.  

</p>
<p>  
 <h2>Choice</h2>

You may choose whether or not to provide Personal Information to CloudifySource. The notices we will provide where CloudifySource collects Personal Information on the Site should help you to make this choice. If you choose not to provide the Personal Information we request, you can still visit most of the Site, but you may be unable to access certain options, offers, and services that involve our interaction with you. 
</p>
<p>  
 <h2>Access/Accuracy</h2>

  To the extent that you do provide us with Personal Information, CloudifySource wishes to maintain accurate Personal Information. You may check Your Profile and add information, delete information or correct any incorrect information we have. 
</p>
<p>  
 <h2>Collection of Information by Third-Party Sites</h2>

Our Site may use a reputable third party to present or serve advertisements that you may see at our Site. These third party ad servers may use cookies, web beacons, clear gifs or similar technologies to help present such advertisements, and to help measure and research the advertisements' effectiveness. The use of these technologies by these third party ad servers is subject to their own privacy policies and is not covered by our Privacy Policy.
 
</p> 
<p>  
 <h2>Links to Other Sites</h2>

 Our Site may contain links to other sites. Other sites may also reference or link to our Site. We are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such other sites.
</p>  
<p>  
 <h2>Children&#39;s Privacy</h2>

  The Site is not structured to attract children under the age of 18. Accordingly, we do not intend to collect Personal Information from anyone we know to be under 18 years of age.  
</p>
<p>  
 <h2>In the Event of Merger, Sale, or Bankruptcy</h2>

  In the event that CloudifySource is acquired by or merged with a third party entity, we reserve the right to transfer or assign the information we have collected from our users as part of a merger, acquisition, sale, or other change of control. In the unlikely event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, or assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the application of laws or equitable principles affecting creditors' rights generally, we may not be able to control how your Personal Information is treated, transferred, or used. In any of the circumstances described in this paragraph, the information will be subject to the privacy policy of the purchaser or assignee. 
 
</p> 
<p>  
 <h2>Commitment</h2>

  We are committed to protecting your privacy. Protecting your privacy online is an evolving area, and CloudifySource&#39;s Sites are constantly evolving to meet these demands. No method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure, however. If you have any comments or questions regarding our Privacy Policy, please contact us at privacy@getcloudify.org. While we cannot guarantee privacy perfection, we will address any issue to the best of our abilities as soon as possible. 

</p>
<p>  
 <h2>Your California Privacy Rights</h2>

  California Civil Code Section 1798.83 permits customers of CloudifySource who are California residents to request certain information regarding its disclosure of personal information to third parties for their direct marketing purposes. To make such a request, please send an e-mail to privacy@getcloudify.org. 
  Please note that we are only required to respond to one request per customer each year. 

</p>

<br/>
<b> Last updated: March 12, 2012 </b>
  
 