---
layout: default
title: Cloudify Prerequisites
category: Installation & Setup
publish: true
abstract: Lists the Cloudify installation and setup prerequisites
pageord: 100
---

h1. Before You Install
Before you install Cloudify, make sure that your environment meets all of the requirements specified in this topic.

h2. Prerequisites for Installing the Cloudify Interactive Shell Client 

* JDK 1.6 or higher must be installed -- "(newwindow)download":http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp the latest update (e.g. JDK 6 Update 23).
* The @JAVA_HOME@ environment variable must point to the correct *JDK* (%{color:red}not JRE%) directory before installing Cloudify. For example, @D:\Java\jdk1.6.0_23@.
* @%JAVA_HOME%/bin@ must be added to the beginning of the @PATH@ environment variable. For example, @%JAVA_HOME%\bin;%SystemRoot%\System32;%SystemRoot%;@

h2. Prerequisites for Cloud Images that are Used by Cloudify

When installing applications on the cloud, Cloudify provisions VMs using cloud images. These cloud images must meet the following minimum requirements:
* JDK 1.6 or higher must be installed in the image. 
* The SSH daemon must be started and running port 22.

h1. Networking and Ports on the Cloud

In order for Cloudify to operate correctly, your environment must meet the following networking requirements:
* Within the security group to which the started images belong, all ports must be open for bidirectional communication from private IP addresses.
* On the management VMs, ports 8099 and 8100 must be open for communication from the Internet via the VMs' public IP address. This allows the Cloudify interactive shell client to interact with the REST gateway and allows users to access the management web application.