---
layout: default
title: Command Line Reference
cat: userguide
sidebar: Command Line Reference 
---

h1. Summary

After you install the "cloudify Shell":guide/setup/installing_the_cloudify_client , you can use the various commands Cloudify provides.
Below you can find all the available commands, their description and how-to-use.
In general, after you run cloudify.sh (or .bat for Windows), you can : 
* Hit 'lt;tab&gt;' for a list of available commands.
* Hit '[cmd] --help' for help on a specific command.
* Hit 'lt;ctrl-dlt;' or 'exit' to exit the console.


h1. Commands

 |_. Command|_.Description|
 |azure:bootstrap-app|Starts Azure Role Instances based on the specified application description. |
 |azure:connect-app|Connects to a bootstrapped application. |
 |azure:set-instances|Sets the number of service instances |
 |azure:teardown-app|Installs an application consisting of one or more services. If you specify a folder path it will be packed and deployed. If you sepcify a service archive, the shell will deploy that file.|
 |bootstrap-cloud|Starts Cloudify Agent without any zone, and the Cloudify management processes on the provided cloud. |
 |bootstrap-localcloud|Starts Cloudify Agent without any zone, and the Cloudify management processes on local machine. These processes are isolated from Cloudify processes running on other machines.|
 |bye|Terminates the shell |
 |clear|Clears the console. |
 |connect|Connects to the target admin REST server |
 |disconnect|Disconnects the admin REST server |
 |exit|Terminates the shell |
 |help|Lists all available commands |
 |install-application|Installs an application. If you specify a folder path it will be packed and deployed. If you sepcify an application archive, the shell will deploy that file.|
 |install-service|Installs a service. If you specify a folder path it will be packed and deployed. If you sepcify a service archive, the shell will deploy that file.|
 |invoke|invokes a custom command |
 |list|Lists all running component of a certain type |
 |list-instances|Lists all instances of a certain service |
 |quit|Terminates the shell |
 |set-instances|Sets the number of services of an elastic service |
 |shutdown-agent|Shuts down the agent running on the local machine. |
 |shutdown-management|Shuts down the agent running on the local machine. |
 |start-agent|Starts Cloudify Agent with the specified zone. The agent communicates with other agent and management machines. |
 |start-management|Starts Cloudify Agent with management zone, and the Cloudify management processes on local machine. The management processes communicate with other agent and management machines.|
 |teardown-cloud|Terminates management machines. |
 |teardown-localcloud|Tears down the Local Cloud installed on the local machine. |
 |test-recipe|Tests a recipe |
 |uninstall-application|Uninstalls an application. |
 |use-application|Sets the currently used application |
 |validate|Validates the a DSL file |
 |version|Displays the XAP and cloudify versions |
